[{"text": "User: Escalating disagreements between mother and wife. My wife and mother are having tense disagreements. In the past, they\u2019ve had minor differences. For example, my wife would complain to me my mother is too overbearing; my mother would complain my wife is lazy. However, it\u2019s intensified lately. I think the cause is my wife talked back to her once. Now, any little disagreement is magnified, leading to major disagreements. What can I do?\nTherapist: What you are describing is something psychologists have termed \"triangulation\" which is what happens when one family member will not talk to the one they have a problem with and goes to a third member of the family to complain instead. Sometimes a third party mediator is needed to help solve problems between two people who disagree. However, in your situation it sounds like this is becoming a problem. Even if they really don't like each other and can't get along, your relationship with the both of them is going to continue to deteriorate the longer you are stuck in the middle. These are the two most important women in your life and they both know it. The wife has the power to dictate when and how often the mother gets to see her son.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/escalating-disagreements-between-mother-and-wife", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I'm addicted to smoking. How can I stop? I'm planning to have baby, so I have to quit smoking - but it's hard. Sometimes it's not a physical need, it's mental.  I cannot help myself from thinking about smoking. What can I do to get rid of this addiction?\nTherapist: Good for you in planning ahead to do what's healthiest for your baby (and yourself). The psychological (or mental) cravings are usually based out of habit, such as having a cigarette after a meal. And if you're consciously trying to quit, you'll find the craving starts with simply thinking about having a cigarette, then usually moves on to thinking about how good it made you feel, etc., Well, if I'm on a diet and I continue to let myself think about the ice cream sitting in the freezer, eventually I'll give in and eat it. That's normal and, for the most part, out of your control. Eventually, it will become easier and easier to brush off that initial thought until you no longer have it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-addicted-to-smoking-how-can-i-stop", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: Keeping secrets from my family. I have secrets in my mind, and I don't know what to do with them. I don't want to tell my wife and mom because I don't want to hurt them. But I'm not sure how long that I can keep the secret to myself.  What should I do? It's becoming annoying and making me anxious. Help me out\nTherapist: It sounds like keeping the secrets has become a problem for you now. There are several things to consider before you make a decision.- You mentioned that you don't want your wife and mom to know because you don't want to hurt them \u2013 why would it hurt them? for you and for your wife and mom).- Once you have considered these, think of what you would tell your friend if they were in your exact situation?- Also, if your wife or mom were in your situation right now, what do you think they would do themselves?- If your wife and mom were in this situation, how would you feel?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/keeping-secrets-from-my-family", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: The Underlying Causes of Being Possessive. I am extremely possessive in my relationships and this is hurting my friendships. How can I fix my underlying issues?\nTherapist: It's great you are able to realize there are other issues going on with someone who feels possessive. Fear of losing someone, fear of being alone, fear of not being good enough. All those fears can lead to low self-esteem and feeling like you have to control other people so you don't lose them. The thing is, controlling other people only pushes them away. Then rewrite those not-so-positive things so they are positive.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/the-underlying-causes-of-being-possessive", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Can I control anxiety without medication? I had a head injury a few years ago and my mind races all the time. I have trouble sleeping and have a lot of anxiety. Every medicine I have been on my body rejects; I get sick to my stomach and get blisters in my mouth. How can I calm my self down? I'm a wreck.\nTherapist: You didn't say what or how many medications you've tried. There are so many medications available for anxiety or insomnia or even depression that there may be others with lesser side effects. Meditation can be very effective, but it takes practice and you don't have to sit cross-legged for hours chanting \"Ohm\" to meditate. And when they do take your mind off your breath, simply refocus (and refocus and refocus). Like medication, you just have to find the one that works best and that might take some experimentation. I hope this helps and best of luck to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-control-anxiety-without-medication", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I break an unhealthy relationship pattern? I want a secure relationship with someone that wants to be with me and who will actually put effort into it. I seem to gravitate toward unavailable men and those that want intimacy and no relationship. I let men dictate and control me because they accuse me of being controlling. I am not comfortable being alone or doing anything by myself. I feel I need the security of someone being around just to survive. I know what I'm doing wrong and I do it anyway just hoping things will change. How do I stop this behavior and thought process?\nTherapist: It is a good thing that you have recognized that you have been in some unhealthy relationships and that you are wanting to break this pattern. You seem to have some good insight into the situation. Another book that might be helpful is \u201cCodependent No More\u201d by Melody Beattie. That\u2019s too much to expect from any individual. For a relationship to be healthy and happy, both people in the relationship first need to be a whole person on their own. That means having a clear sense of self, knowing who you are and what you want, knowing how to set healthy boundaries, and knowing how to meet your own needs.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-break-an-unhealthy-relationship-pattern", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: I have anger issues. I am extremely explosive about the simplest things. I easily recognize this but have no control over it and need suggestions for managing my anger.\nTherapist: I suggest that you work on emotional awareness. Emotional awareness basically means knowing what you are feeling and why. Being emotionally aware also means that you are able to express your feelings to others. Being unable to do so leads to feelings of frustration and being misunderstood. Therefore, many men learned to turn feelings of sadness, insecurities, or fears into anger and express these feelings as anger. You can control yourself and not explode. Walk away, remove yourself from the situation, do whatever you have to do to not lash out.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-anger-issues-i-am-extremely-explosive-about-the-simplest-things", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: I\u2019ve suffered from insomnia and nightmares for about 3 years. It takes me a long time to fall asleep; I\u2019d estimate about two hours. I often have nightmares, starting with being eaten by a monster, and I often wake up frightened and unable to breathe. I believe I started losing sleep after breaking up with a girlfriend of 8 years. Also, my father\u2019s business went bankrupt and my mother has a chronic condition. I was under a lot of stress, and life lost meaning.\nTherapist: First of all, exercise is always beneficial for your physical and emotional health. That's great that you have added this in your routine. Certain foods are linked with poor sleep. Stick to a sleep routine and avoid any activities close to bed time that demand a lot of attention and energy. You may also benefit from talk therapy with a qualified therapist to discuss any underlying issues you are experiencing. Finally, Yoga has shown to be very beneficial for quality sleep. Best of luck to you and I sincerely hope you are able to catch up on some well deserved Z's!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-ve-suffered-from-insomnia-and-nightmares-for-about-3-years", "topics": "Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: Unethical Therapy Practices. What do you do when a therapist and a parent drugs a child and makes up lies in order to stop the other parent's custody visitation?\nTherapist: I will admit I am confused about this question. They know there is a good chance of their records ending up in court and that they themselves will have to testify in court. Of course, therapists are human and can make mistakes, but I find it highly unlikely that a therapist would knowingly and willingly do something like this that is such a major ethical violation. Every therapist is licensed in their state. Most accusations from the other parent are expected in a custody situation because people do tend to get quite ugly. Have evidence of wrongdoing before accusing them of this.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/unethical-therapy-practices", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: My friends accusing me of having problems. They're calling me names like hypocrite and a baby even when they act in the same manner as I do. I'm tired of being called names. What should I do?\nTherapist: It sounds like your confused as to why your friends would be calling you a hypocrite when they act in the same manner, correct? Communication is key to any relationship. In-person contact is the best method of sorting out differences considering texts, emails or any written response can be misconstrued. If after speaking with them you feel that they have valid reasons for the way they are feeling, maybe you can consider modifying your behavior accordingly. And it is important that you surround yourself with people who are an asset to your self esteem as opposed to those that hinder it. I hope you are able to get this matter sorted.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-friends-accusing-me-of-having-problems", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: About a year ago I found out my husband had cheated on me. Cheating is something unacceptable for me but because we have two daughters I decided not to break up the family. However, now I am struggling to forget and forgive what happened. I feel like I cannot trust him. Without trust, I cannot stay in this relationship. On the other hand, I do not want my children to get hurt. I'm not sure how to move forward?\nTherapist: Infidelity is an extremely challenging obstacle to overcome. There are some things that you should consider. If you felt in his heart that he was truly sorry for what he had done, it will give you a piece of mind that it was a\u00a0 mistake. If you found that he was still lying or not forthcoming, the sting is even more painful. He should be able to answer any question you have honestly and without hesitation. Thirdly, has he shown a positive difference after this experience? Find out what drove your husband to cheat in the first place and decide if this aspect in his life has been resolved.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/about-a-year-ago-i-found-out-my-husband-had-cheated-on-me", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Sleeping, Anger and Anxiety. I have a lot of issues going on right now. First of all, I have a lot of trouble sleeping at times, while other nights I sleep too much and still feel quite tired. I\u2019m also noticing increased irritability and experiencing anxiety attacks that last for hours. Is there something wrong with me and if so what should I do?\nTherapist: It sounds as if you may be experiencing a bout of anxiety and/or depression. Sleeping difficulties, irritability and anxiety attacks all are correlated with these mood disorders. Also, keep in mind that just because you are experiencing this now does not mean that you will be dealing with it the rest of your life. However, you may want to first talk with your primary physician to rule out any medical issues that could be causing these problems. On the other hand, if it is determined that you are experiencing anxiety and/or depression without a medical reason, there are two methods that are very helpful in your treatment:#1 Talk therapy with a certified therapistHe/She will be able to address the concerns you\u2019re experiencing and discovering if there is an underlying issue that may be causing it.#2 MedicationThere are many medications that can assist you with the feelings that you are experiencing.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/sleeping-anger-and-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: I'm losing my husband because my lack of sex drive. I have no sex drive due to medical issues. I\u2019ve shut down completely and closed everyone out. However, it devastated me when I learned he's seeing someone else. I\u2019ve since told him that I wanted to work things out but he\u2019s not sure I actually mean it. He thinks the only reason I want him back is because I\u2019m jealous.\nTherapist: I\u2019m sorry to hear about your current situation. My heart goes out to you during this time. First of all, it is of vital importance that you discuss your symptoms with your doctor. More than likely he/she will be able to help you relieve some of these symptoms. I think he would appreciate knowing that it was your medical problems causing the lack of sexual desire as opposed to the reason being him. The conversation will be hard to explain to your doctor and your husband since it is of such a personal nature but it will be extremely beneficial.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-losing-my-husband-because-my-lack-of-sex-drive", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Sleeping, Anger and Anxiety. I have a lot of issues going on right now. First of all, I have a lot of trouble sleeping at times, while other nights I sleep too much and still feel quite tired. I\u2019m also noticing increased irritability and experiencing anxiety attacks that last for hours. Is there something wrong with me and if so what should I do?\nTherapist: I have to commend you on reaching out to get some answers on why you are feeling the way that you are feeling. Financial, relationship and unemployment are all common stressors for people. Often times, these symptoms can be overlooked and mistaken for \"just being tired.\" If you are having these symptoms, please seek help IMMEDIATELY. Lastly, considering your stated symptoms I would recommend reaching out to your Doctor for further consult. do Some helpful tips for the your Doctor would be to monitor your sleep habits (i.e. how much or little are you sleeping), make a list of your triggers for your anger outbursts as well as your triggers for your anxiety attacks.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/sleeping-anger-and-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: I need help of letting go of a man who hurt me but it\u2019s so hard. How do I do it? nan\nTherapist: It is incredibly hard to let go of a relationship that was meaningful in your life. Even though you consider the relationship to be a hurtful one, I\u2019m sure there are some aspects about it that are hard to let go of (i.e. time invested, mutual friends, positive memories, etc). However, the most important piece here is that you know that this relationship is harmful. That is great that you have recognized this. Keep in mind that the longer you stay in this relationship, the longer it will be until you find the RIGHT person. Give your chance to start on your deserved happiness now.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-need-help-of-letting-go-of-a-man-who-hurt-me-but-it-s-so-hard-how-do-i-do-it", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My parents are threatening to get rid of the only things I still care about. The last of my emotions belong to my pets. Today my dad said he might get rid of them tomorrow. If that does happen I might dig hole in the ground with a paper that says \"here lays my emotions. R.I.P.\" I practically have no emotions left and I came to the realization about this not being normal by comparing my reaction to certain situations to my family's. What's wrong with me?\nTherapist: It sounds to me like you have had a lot going on and now you are afraid you are going to lose the last things you care about, your pets. I would recommend that you focus on developing healthy coping skills. I don\u2019t know if this is what it is like for you at your house, but there are two kinds of household environments that can cause dysfunction in children. One is when you grow up in a very rigid stern household where all decisions are made for you and you feel like you have no control over anything. Please talk to a trusted adult about your feelings before it gets any worse.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-parents-are-threatening-to-get-rid-of-the-only-things-i-still-care-about", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My girlfriend broke up with me but I want her back. It all started when she went to Missouri to visit her family. That's when she told me she loved me but was not in love with me anymore. Then she told me to come to her in Missouri. Once I got there everything was fine again.\nTherapist: I wonder why you were both trying to get pregnant when the relationship seemed troubled? You say you never treated her badly, and I believe you. The other is Can My Relationship Be Saved?Sometimes when you cling and try even harder to hold onto someone, it makes you both miserable. If it is meant to be, you will end up back together again. It seems like this is something that she needs to decide since she is the one that keeps doing the leaving. I suggest backing off and letting her go.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-girlfriend-broke-up-with-me-but-i-want-her-back-what-do-i-do", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I endured sexual and physical abuse by my brother as child. Now I have anger and trust issues. How can I treat this and fix myself?\nTherapist: I will assume that for whatever reason, you either do not want to or are not able to seek counseling for this. However, I highly urge you to do so because long-term childhood abuse does have negative consequences for your life as an adult, as it seems you are already aware. There are confidential and free crisis hotlines that you can call that deal with sexual abuse. Some/most also offer free counseling services in local areas. That would be a good place to start looking, especially if cost of counseling is an issue. Having anger and trust issues after something like this is a perfectly normal reaction to what happened to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-endured-sexual-and-physical-abuse-by-my-brother-as-child", "topics": "Domestic Violence,Anger Management,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I've never been able to talk with my parents. My parents are in their sixties while I am a teenager. I love both of them but not their personalities. I feel that they do not take me seriously whenever I talk about a serious event in my life. If my dad doesn\u2019t believe me, then my mom goes along with my dad and acts like she doesn\u2019t believe me either. I know they have their own problems, which I do my best to help with. But they don't always try to help me with mine, when I really need them. I feel as if my childhood has been taken from me.\nTherapist: Being 15 years old can be a very difficult time in your teenage life. However, it is how we manage stress and anxiety, so it will not overcome our lives. Relaxation Techniques can help you tremendously in reducing your stress and anxiety. You would be surprised how much air you lungs can hold. This is what you want to do when you are feeling overwhelmed and/or stressed. Take a moment to take in at least 10 deep breaths and let them out slowly. Find an experienced Yoga instructor to teach you the ropes and/or ask your school counselor about the possibility of getting someone to come to the school to teach the students.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-people-to-listen", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict,Depression,Stress,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Dealing with an unfaithful and judgmental significant other. At first, we used to do things together and our sex life was ok. We've also had two beautiful baby girls during this time. Now we argue and he says I am not affectionate at all or I don't know how to please a man, when I work part-time, take care of a 2 year old and a 5 month old and cook. Sometimes he cooks, but he also spends a lot of time on the internet. Please, I am in need of a Christian counselor to help us because I really need to speak to someone.\nTherapist: I don't think you\u2019ve lost something, I think you\u2019ve found something - your breaking point, and it's about time. Your boyfriend seems to be a very selfish and immature man who reconnects with you when it's convenient for him. And although you may want to believe he can change, he has proved over and over again that he's not willing to, so you need to do what is best for you and your children. Would you want your sons to treat women this way? I understand it's not easy to just kick him out, especially since you have children together, but a counselor can help you talk through all the details while\u00a0helping you raise your self-esteem and self-worth.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/dealing-with-an-unfaithful-and-judgmental-significant-other", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I control my sexual urges? nan\nTherapist: Eating, gambling, shopping, sex, even exercising. A therapist can help you identify the underlying reasons and help you learn to control the urges and develop healthier coping skills. What this did for her was stop an unhealthy behavior and replace it with some healthier activities. You stated that you have a disability that makes it impossible. A therapist can help you explore the feelings that you are experiencing due to the inability to have sex. Something that you used to be able to do, now you cannot.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-my-sexual-urges", "topics": "Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with my son's violent thoughts and dreams? My son claims that hes been having extremely violent thoughts and dreams. Not violent like he's hurting someone, but violent thoughts like horrible things happening to his loved ones. He explained one of his dreams the other day and it was so violent it was sickening. It was far beyond anything in a horror movie, he says he can't help these thoughts they just pop up. Please help!\nTherapist: Let me start my stating this is important to take seriously - taking to his PCP, getting a referral to a pediatric specialist, and getting him to a relational psychotherapist would be my first tasks. I wont label this occurrences as \"normal\" yet it is important to note these things do occur. My first observation is to say that it is a tremendous advantage that your son is communicating what he is experiencing. I'd encourage him to continue to do so, no matter the extent of his thoughts - his trust of you being able the handle his experience is of utmost importance.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-my-son-s-violent-thoughts-and-dreams", "topics": "Anger Management,Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: I'm experiencing panic attacks when I'm physically separated from my girlfriend. Whenever I leave my girlfriend I get panic attacks. I'm taking medications to control them, but I'm thinking of moving in with her since I get so anxious.\nTherapist: I\u2019m sorry to hear that you are currently experiencing panic attacks. I hope that the medication you have been prescribed has provided you with some relief. Although you may feel very anxious about leaving her, your body is reacting to this stressful event in your life in an unhealthy manner. Therefore, it is essential that you address the reason for why you are experiencing panic attacks in the first place followed by practicing coping mechanisms in the case that one would arise in the future. It sounds like you are very happy in your relationship and I hope you are able to reduce your anxiety so that you are able to enjoy one another.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-experiencing-panic-attacks-when-i-m-physically-separated-from-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Anxiety,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I see my base doctor without my ID? I need to get on base to see my doctor. My ID card was in my wallet which was stolen. I\u2019m unable to reach my husband at this time. He is only one who can take me on base in order to get a new ID so I can continue to see doctor. Is there anything I can do?\nTherapist: Do you have any other form of identification? Depending on the threat level, they may not need your ID as long as you are with someone that has access. Keep in mind that currently (6/11/15) all military bases are on Bravo which unfortunately means you will need your own ID.Finally, if all else fails, call your doctor and explain your situation. Also, it\u2019s important to make sure that you report your wallet being stolen if you haven\u2019t already. Security Forces on base can help you with this and to ensure your ID doesn\u2019t get into the wrong hands.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-see-my-base-doctor-without-my-id", "topics": "Military Issues "}, {"text": "User: I\u2019ve known my boyfriend for several years. However, during this time we had a few arguments and broke up with each other for a short period of time. However, he never came to see me and instead asked me for money. After I gave him money, he quit answering my phone calls and texts. When I confronted him about this, he wasn\u2019t apologetic. He said that he only did it to get even with me and was actually mad at me for looking through his phone. He even closed his car window on my finger and tried to throw me out of his car.\nTherapist: There are plenty of red flags that you have been presented with:Several breakups\u00a0Not holding up his end of the bargain regarding workLack of empathy for your miscarriageLying about his involvement with another womanPhysical violence, which is of most concern. This seems to be a very unhealthy relationship. In my experience, relationships such as these rarely become positive ones. Violence is never okay and regardless of his reasoning (you looking through his phone), it is indefensible.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/when-should-i-give-up-on-a-relationship", "topics": "Relationships,Domestic Violence"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope and rebuild my life after ending an 11 year abusive marriage? I am going through a divorce from a narcissistic sociopath who left me for another woman after mentally and emotionally abusing me for 11 years. Is it normal and healthy to not adapt as quickly and be as strong as I think I should be? I am astounded at his cruelty and how much he doesn't care, as well as most other people in my life. My brother just said no to lending me a few hundred dollars for me to live on.\nTherapist: I am very sorry to hear of your struggles. Also, abusers will make you think that they are the best thing you can get. Google \u201cpositive affirmations\u201d to find some that resonate with you. Some relaxation and meditation exercises may help you as well. Take this time to focus on you and try not to worry about what everyone else in your life is doing.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-and-rebuild-my-life-after-ending-an-11-year-abusive-marriage", "topics": "Domestic Violence,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: I'm going through depression right now and my relationship is suffering. I've been married for 3 years and I have two kids. During my 3-years married, my husband cheated on me twice.  The second time really got to me and at my lowest I hurt him back. We aren't communicating as well as I would like. What do I do?\nTherapist: It takes a lot of courage for someone that is being abused to reach out for help. I want you to know that I am here to help you in any way that I can. So, the most important thing right at this moment is asking yourself, if you and your children are safe? So, you can never take abuse (physical or mental) lightly because you never know what is going through that persons mind at that particular time. I would also suggest counseling for you and your children in order to work through these issues.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-going-through-depression-right-now-and-my-relationship-is-suffering", "topics": "Depression,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I have been with my husband for almost 7 years. We got engaged a little after 5 years of being together. I had always been clear that I wanted to get married and I sadly would drop hints about how i wanted him to propose. I know this is all material and the marriage is the most important thing but I cant help but get jealous and envious every time I see someone get a proposal or wedding that I had wanted. I try to focus on our marriage but every time I see someone have the best proposals and weddings I get upset. I know it is selfish and I know its petty but I just can't control it.\nTherapist: It's hard to let go of the dreams you had regarding your wedding and engagement. But please be aware that it is rare that any wedding is perfect. You may envy your friends' weddings but more than likely they had a few mishaps of their own and/or it wasn't as perfect as they had planned it either. Try to live in the present considering that dwelling on the past can still not change how you were proposed to or how your wedding day transpired. But after that, close that chapter and move on.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-let-go-of-my-dream-wedding", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How do I stop grieving my mother\u2019s death? What can I do to stop grieving my mother\u2019s death?  When I am awake I just cry every day. I don't have anyone to talk to. I need help; I am still cry over her.  Will I ever stop crying? It\u2019s been 3 years.\nTherapist: That is a really hard thing for someone to go through. There is really no set time for grief to be over, but I agree that if it has been three years and you are still crying every day then this is past the time for normal grief. I do not know how old you are and if you are in school or have a job, but I would imagine that if by now you literally were doing nothing but crying every day all day, someone would have noticed and would have gotten you some help. You can go back to another stage that you previously experienced. It sounds like you are stuck in this phase. When we lose someone we never forget them.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stop-grieving-my-mother-s-death", "topics": "Grief and Loss"}, {"text": "User: Where does a child go for help? I'm having issues with my relative. The police never believe the experiences I have been through because I am only a kid.\u00a0  I've even had trouble trying to reach a therapist because I said I wanted to get an adult to help me. Could you please give me advice?\nTherapist: I think it would be wise for you to call a hotline especially designed for children. It's called the Childhelp National Child Abuse Hotline. The number is 1-800-4-A-CHILD (1-800-422-4453). The call is completely free and they are open 24 hours a day / 7 days a week. I'm glad that you are taking steps to improve your situation. You are a very brave and an intelligent child. Please remember to call 911 if you are in immediate danger.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/where-does-a-child-go-for-help", "topics": "Family Conflict,Children & Adolescents"}, {"text": "User: How do I fix my marriage? My wife just last week said she wants a divorce and it's all sudden. I understand that marriages have their ups and downs but I don't understand why she can't tell me why she wants a divorce. Should I fight for my family (daughter and wife)?\nTherapist: Chances are, if you really think about it, there were signs that something wasn\u2019t quite right in your marriage. I would say yes, keep trying to fight for your family, at least until you know what the problems are from your wife's perspective and if they're repairable. Just be sure you\u2019re open to hearing what's said and try not to get defensive if she blames you for some things. And although it may be difficult, if a divorce does happen, try to be as amicable as possible with your wife so your daughter isn't further impacted by this new family dynamic.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-fix-my-marriage", "topics": "Marriage,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: How do I find happiness after my boyfriend passed away? I loved him more than anything. He passed away on our anniversary which was also the day I was going to apply for our apartment. I'm not handling it well. I moved to a new town and started a new life but nothing helps.\nTherapist: I am so sorry to hear of your boyfriend's passing. Grief is something that can take a long time to recover from. Have you considered speaking with a grief counselor? Being able to speak with someone that specializes in grief would be very beneficial. This is one of the hardest aspects to deal with in life but eventually you will be able to move forward. Oftentimes, it is comforting to meet others who share the same experience as you. I hope you will find peace and comfort soon.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-happiness-after-my-boyfriend-passed-away", "topics": "Grief and Loss"}, {"text": "User: How do I remember and deal with things I did as a kid? I did some horrible sexual things as a kid and I regret everything. Can someone help me cope with myself? Can someone help me remember my past?\nTherapist: Hypnosis can be a valuable tool that a trained therapist can use to bring back suppressed memories. However, keep in mind that hypnosis doesn't work for everyone. I think regardless, speaking with a therapist about your sexual issues would be beneficial. It seems like you have experienced some painful experiences in the past and may need help dealing with them in order to move forward. I wish you the best of luck and I hope you receive the treatment that you deserve.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-remember-and-deal-with-things-i-did-as-a-kid", "topics": "Trauma,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How do I choose between two guys? I have been with a guy for 4 years,  he's a great guy and we also have a son together. The problem is that I'm in love with a guy that I've been talking to for about 2 years but I've never met him in person. Honestly I'm bored with the relationship I have with the first guy and he makes want to go after the second guy, I don't know how to tell him that. What should I do?\nTherapist: Wow, this sounds like a sticky situation; however, I\u2019m here to help guide you through this decision. If you are not love with your partner, you will show distance, unhappiness, sadness, possibility of frequent arguments and cheating. As a responsible adult, you are supposed to be there to shape and model the future for your child. However, being in love with someone you have never seen before can be very risky. Honestly, that sounds like lust and the longing of love. If you decide to pursue the second relationship, I would suggest setting up an outing with a friend or two in order to get to know this person as there are a lot of scammers these days.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-choose-between-two-guys", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What should I do if my boyfriend can't get over my past? My boyfriend can't get over my promiscuous past. He says he loves me  but says the thought of my past is disgusting and a sexual distraction. He says he should have had more sex with different people. I don't know how to handle this.\nTherapist: I am sorry to hear of your relationship struggles. This gets into a gray area for some people. I don\u2019t necessarily want to know how many people my partner has been with and I certainly don\u2019t want a whole lot of details. You cannot control how he will react to information that you provide to him and you cannot control how he feels about the information. You can offer couples counseling to him and see if he will go with you. If your boyfriend cannot get over your past, you may have to let him go.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-if-my-boyfriend-can-t-get-over-my-past", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I feel like I could never be with anyone because no one would want me. What do I do if I have been feeling like I could never be with anyone because no one would want me. Or I couldn't have many friends because of who I am. It's strange I want to be loved but I'd hate to be because I always lose.\nTherapist: I'm sure there are plenty of people that care and love for you that you are not taking into consideration. Maybe you can attend a religious service, join an interest group (i.e. reading club, sports group, etc.) Most importantly, you need to tap into your interests and surround yourself with things that are beneficial for your own mental and physical health. This is an unhealthy way to think of yourself and I think with a little help, you can see that you are more than deserving of a great relationship. Thanks for reaching out and I wish you the best of luck moving forward.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-i-could-never-be-with-anyone-because-no-one-would-want-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I stop my step child from hurting my biological child? What makes my step child, an 8 year old boy, choke my daughter, a 6 year old girl? This has been going on for 4 years. The boy tells my daughter not to tell on him. He knows it's wrong; we have did time out, spanking, taking away toys, and sitting on the wall. I am afraid for my daughters safety!\nTherapist: Do you know if the child has been evaluated by a mental health professional? A professional will be able to help the child learn how to control their anger and mend the troublesome actions into more appropriate responses. Have you addressed your concerns with the child's other parent? There could be contributing factors in his life that could be causing these issues (exposure to violence, sexual/physical abuse, drug use, stressful events in his life, etc.). It is important that these factors are identified so that they can either be eliminated and/or reduced.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stop-my-step-child-from-hurting-my-biological-child", "topics": "Anger Management,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with a weird fetish I'm afraid of opening up about? I have this weird fetish that I'm afraid to open up about it. What should I do?\nTherapist: This is difficult to answer because you don\u2019t tell us what the fetish is. The first thing to ask yourself is if this is something that is illegal or not. You may find other people have the same interest as you. Find a therapist that you can trust and tell them. Trust me, they have heard and seen it all by now, and they can help you either stop the behavior that is causing you distress, or help you come to terms with accepting the behavior as part of who you are. There is no need to suffer with this alone.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-a-weird-fetish-i-m-afraid-of-opening-up-about", "topics": "Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: What can I do if my coworkers accuse me of mood swings? My coworkers are making false statements about me to the boss, saying I have mood swings. They have no proof to back it up. Can my employer make me see a therapist of their choice?\nTherapist: I can\u2019t give you legal advice, but employers can suggest you see someone if your behavior is affecting your job. I believe most government agencies have an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) where employees can talk to a therapist about any issue, not just work-related, for free (up to a certain amount of sessions).I\u2019m wondering, though,\u00a0why your coworkers would tell your boss this if it\u2019s not true. Maybe this\u00a0\u201cforced counseling\u201d can be an opportunity for some introspection on your part.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-if-my-coworkers-accuse-me-of-mood-swings", "topics": "Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with depression? I'm in a state of depression right now. Who can I talk to? I've been sick in a lot of pain and crying. Don't know where to turn.\nTherapist: First of all, if you\u2019re sick and in pain, have you seen your doctor? If you have a chronic illness and pain, this can often lead to depression and is very common. You\u2019ve taken the first step to dealing with it. You can talk to your doctor, even if your depression isn\u2019t related to your health. If you can't find any in your area (newspapers usually publish this information), there are\u00a0online support groups as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: What can I do if my parents refuse to acknowledge my anxiety and self-confidence issues? Whenever I have an opinion it gets shut down. My mom and everyone else behaves likewise. For my father who heads a company, this is normal. He blatantly refuses to even try to see it from my angle. It isn't possible for me to get professional one-on-one help. I feel rather worthless more often than not, unfortunately.\nTherapist: I'm sorry to hear that you are unable to get through to your parents. It sounds like you are experiencing a great deal of anxiety that needs to be addressed by a professional (despite the fact that you are unable to at the moment). I would recommend talking with another adult such as a  school counselor that can offer you support in this area. If you are unable to reach out to a school counselor maybe you can try a member of the family such as an aunt or an uncle that feels comfortable addressing the issue with your parents. Sometimes it helps hearing it from a third party before the situations is taken seriously enough.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-if-my-parents-refuse-to-acknowledge-my-anxiety-and-self-confidence-issues", "topics": "Family Conflict,Self-esteem,Parenting,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I overcome being jealous of my boyfriends mother? nan\nTherapist: Try to think of his close relationship with his mother in a good way. It means that they have a positive family structure which can transfer down to your own family if you have one together in the future. Despite your boyfriend having a good relationship with his mother, it will never be equal to the relationship that you have with him. There are certain things that he may look towards his mother for and certain things that he may look toward you for. So, instead of comparing your relationship with him to the one he has with his mother, try viewing them as two separate entities. However, all together, you can have a positive, healthy family dynamic.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-overcome-being-jealous-of-my-boyfriends-mother", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Any suggestions for erection problems? I'm a 40 year old male and having erection problems. Still have the desire for a woman. Awfully frustrated. Any suggestions? My Doc doesn't want to discuss it.\nTherapist: Hi there, first off I have to commend you for reaching out. There are some things that you can try naturally, before resulting in medication, such as your eating habits and exercise. Do you consume a healthy diet and do you exercise regularly? How much caffeine and sugar do you intake daily? You would be surprised of how much pressure what we consume puts on our bodies. As far as your Doctor, I would recommend looking into getting another Doctor. I have never heard of a medical professional not wanting to talk about anything. That appears to be a personal issue on their part.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/any-suggestions-for-erection-problems", "topics": "Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I move on from my husband's cheating? My husband cheated on me and it hurt me very bad. It was a time when my health was poor. I'm have a hard time moving on.\nTherapist: These are all things that you want to consider. Betrayal is very hard to get over so if it's taking you awhile to get over, know that this is normal. Hopefully you're husband has been very regretful and upfront and honest with you since this happened. And if it can, there needs to be an action plan in place (i.e. being honest with how he's feeling) so that you both get a chance to rectify the situation. It would be obvious that he did not truly regret what he had done or else he wouldn't repeat the same mistake. Ease back into it and be upfront with your feelings.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-move-on-from-my-husband-s-cheating", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Why do I keep getting with men that emotionally abuse me? I've been abused emotionally all of my life and for some reason I keep getting with men that I let emotionally abused me. How can I stop it? I know the mistakes that I've made in my life. I'm having a really hard time getting back on my feet. Can you help me please?\nTherapist: I want to applaud you for taking this first step towards realizing that this is an issue and wanting to do something about it. This book describes many situations that are similar to yours, describes how a person came to be that way, and how to stop it. Often we get in a relationship because of a need. You can\u2019t let someone stay and continue to treat you badly. Couples therapy can help you both learn to communicate in a healthier way with each other and can help you realize what areas in the relationship need work. Even when you can say that you realize it is a problem, you still don\u2019t know how to stop it because you never learned any other way of interacting with people.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-keep-getting-with-men-that-emotionally-abuse-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I determine if I should be a boy or girl? I feel like I would be more comfortable as a girl even though I still like girls. I think I'm like a girl stuck in a guy body. I imagine myself as a girl too. I think this more because my friends say that if I was a girl I would be a hot looking one. And I don't care about having boobs or anything. I just feel like the way that I do act will make more sense if I was a girl.\nTherapist: I understand that gender and/or sexual identity crises can be very difficult to navigate, although in today\u2019s time I think we have made a lot of progress and it is becoming easier for individuals to find themselves and also find acceptance from society. If you are a child or teenager, this is a normal time to have identity questions and to be in a phase where you are trying to figure out who you are and what you want out of life. Because then you may not feel safe exploring these feelings and decisions. Anything permanent like surgery or hormone replacement to change your actual gender is something that does not need to be done lightly. Please find a therapist that can help you explore your feelings and your identity crisis. Find a professional that can help, especially if you experience depression or any thoughts of harming yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-determine-if-i-should-be-a-boy-or-girl", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over anxiety, depression, and isolation? I've have lived for sometime with depression but things have gotten a lot better, but why is it so hard to get over anxiety and social isolation?\nTherapist: The best way to handle depression and anxiety is with a combination of appropriate medication given to you by a medical doctor, and therapy to help you understand the thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that are causing the depression and anxiety in the first place and then to replace these with more positive thoughts and behaviors. This is not something that anyone should just \u201cwhite knuckle\u201d and try to get through on their own with no help. Learning new coping skills is something your therapist can help you with. You will continue to get the same thing out of life until you make some changes.\u201d You might not particularly like any of the choices that you are facing, but you do have choices.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-anxiety-depression-and-isolation", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: What do I do about a cousin who makes me feel belittled, insecure and frustrated? Hello, I have a cousin in my family who has been making me feel belittled, insecure, and frustrated during her stay here in the city. I have been thinking a lot about her comments and whether I truly am an inconsiderate person who is not thoughtful, spatially aware of surroundings/people, or positive, but in the end, I am feeling awfully hurt about how this has affected our relationship.\nTherapist: Do you have a close friend or relative who's opinion you trust? Ask them for their honest feedback and if they see you like your cousin does. You can always ask her what would be the best way to communicate plans with her so you know, specifically, what she is expecting. Even if you do resemble her comments, the way it sounds like she approaches this problem is not out of love. The fact that you're introspective enough to consider your own behavior suggests the problem is not with you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-do-i-do-about-a-cousin-who-makes-me-feel-belittled-insecure-and-frustrated", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I have a son with my girlfriend, but she is emotionally abusive. She says she is not cheating I have not found anything but she always putting me down, telling me to get out and telling me she doesn't love me, but then the next day after our fight she says she does. She's always telling me I'm annoying and just belittles me. On her days off she never cooks or cleans.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are in a tough situation. You must consider that being in an abusive relationship is not healthy for you or your child. However, with time and focus you can do it. This gives her a chance to render the situation. I also think it would be valuable for you to start engaging in things outside of the home that make you happy. Are there any groups in the area that you can join such as playgroups that will allow you to engage with other parents? I wish you the best of luck with your relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-a-son-with-my-girlfriend-but-she-is-emotionally-abusive-what-do-i-do", "topics": "Domestic Violence"}, {"text": "User: What can I do to help my dad stop drinking? Or how to send him somewhere that can help him, something like The Baker Act.\nTherapist: More information would be needed for me to accurately answer this question, such as your age, whether you live with your dad or not, and what other family members live in the household. Something like this, alcoholism, is a whole family disease. Don\u2019t loan him the car keys or pay any household bills for him. This may mean that he loses his family if he doesn\u2019t stop. It is his choice to drink, but it is your choice to put up with the behaviors of his drinking. This could be a reason for the authorities to step in.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-to-help-my-dad-stop-drinking", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: My son and family has different views about religion. How do I resolve these differences? In particular during family gatherings (such as funerals), where there are different customs.\nTherapist: I think the best thing you can do is be respectful of each family member's wishes. Although everyone may not agree with one another, the most important thing you can do for each other is to respect their faith and beliefs instead of trying to sway them in a certain direction. There are many families that are united despite their differences. For example, a mother may be Catholic and the father Jewish. By introducing the children to each faith until they are ready to decide for themselves can be beneficial. So don't get too discouraged if your child wants to explore different avenues. Creating a loving and accepting environment is most essential.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-son-and-family-has-different-views-about-religion-how-do-i-resolve-these-differences", "topics": "Spirituality,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over a slump? I don't know what's wrong with me. At times I can be really happy, excited, I'll talk fast, and I want to do things. But lately I've been staying up way later and sleeping too much. I don't hang out with friends, I don't really have them. I feel nothing, worthless. I want to do nothing, I have no interest in anything.   All I usually do is stay in my room. I want to be happy, I want to be nice. What's wrong with me?\nTherapist: I'm sorry to hear that you are feeling as if you're in a slump. Have you ever talked with a physician regarding your symptoms? I think it would be best to talk with your doctor or a therapist to help pinpoint the issue causing them. If it is in fact mental health related there are many medications or therapy choices that can help. I hope that you will feel back on track soon!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-a-slump", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I approach my doctor about seeing a therapist? I'm worried I should see a therapist due to past events and current mental status. I'm just so unsure of how to ask my doctor about seeing someone.\nTherapist: I'm glad you realize that you need extra support and are being proactive. Simply explain to your doctor the feelings you have been experiencing and how you feel that speaking with a mental health therapist would be beneficial. However,  keep in mind that you do not have to go into detail about your personal feelings. You can simply state that you are feeling down, overwhelmed, stressed, or whatever it may be. I'm sure your doctor will be glad to direct you from there. I hope that you will be feeling better soon!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-approach-my-doctor-about-seeing-a-therapist", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: How can I slow down and enjoy life? I feel like my time is going too fast\nTherapist: As an American, I can truly say that I spend way too much time on the go! Personally, for myself I like to keep a calendar with a to-do list. There is discipline involved in this process. If you have trouble with this, then maybe seeking out some accountability such as including a coworker to make sure you do not bring work home once your shift is over or your spouse/partner reminding you that this is a time for play and not work. Again, everyone has their own style on time management. Please don't hesitate to reach out for anything further!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-slow-down-and-enjoy-life", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I approach my doctor about seeing a therapist? I'm worried I should see a therapist due to past events and current mental status. I'm just so unsure of how to ask my doctor about seeing someone.\nTherapist: Having this kind of conversation with a doctor can feel difficult. Any good medical professional will recognize that. You are absolutely right to think about the importance of being your own health care advocate. Let your doctor know what you are concerned about and tell your doctor what you think might help. If there is a specific issue that you\u2019d like to address in counseling, let you doctor know about it. And don\u2019t hesitate to directly ask for a referral. I know this may all feel a little overwhelming.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-approach-my-doctor-about-seeing-a-therapist", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: I get depressed whenever anyone I care about is too busy to be with me. What do I do? My last relationships have ended horribly. They just up and abandoned me. One of them I have never gotten closure with over it, leaving me emotionally wrecked. I know something's wrong with me but I don't know how to even start trying to better myself. I get into these depressed like states whenever anyone I care about is too busy to be with me. I know that I shouldn't act like that because people are genuinely busy, but I feel like they're doing it just because they don't want to be around me.\nTherapist: Frequently when working with clients, I utilize the A-B-C model developed by Albert Ellis, the founder of Rational Emotive Behavior Theory. For instance here is an example:A (Action or Event): You need to talk to someone and that person is not calling you back. This is just an example but if you actively work to replace the negative thought patterns that effect your behavior, studies show that your overall outlook and mood will improve. If this model resonates with you, I recommend \"Feeling better, getting better, staying better\" by Alber Ellis.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-get-depressed-whenever-anyone-i-care-about-is-too-busy-to-be-with-me-what-do-i-do", "topics": "Social Relationships,Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I start talking again after a fight? I haven't uttered one word to my boyfriend in days. Now I'm over it and don't know how to approach the situation?\nTherapist: In any relationship, it is important to be able to say \"I'm sorry\" because it shows vulnerability and openness. I recommend that you sit and have a discussion with him now that you are calm about why you were upset and how you would like to handle such incidents in the future. If you find yourself becoming upset again, I encourage you to take a 20 minute break and then come back to the conversation once you are no longer heated. Studies show that talking or discussing arguments are more effective once you have cooled down and you are more likely to hear/understand what your partner is trying to convey.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-start-talking-again-after-a-fight", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I get out of an abusive relationship? I've been with my boyfriend over 3 years. He cheated on me and the woman is now pregnant. He is physically and mentally abusive towards me. I have attempted to talk with him in order to resolve our issues; however, he never wants to talk and often blames me for everything. He tells me although I help him doesn\u2019t mean that I am a good person. He always discredits me as a woman and it\u2019s hurtful. I spend most day crying and feeling lonely.\nTherapist: That sounds like a very hurtful situation. Unfortunately, without a batterers intervention course or a desire to change, the abuse cycle is unlikely to stop. I do not recommend that you try to leave on your own due that being the most dangerous time when in an abusive relationship. As an abuser, his goal is to control you whether it's through mental or verbal means. I recommend that you contact a domestic violence shelter in your area. There is help out there and you are not alone. If you need any additional resources in your area, please don't hesitate to contact me.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-out-of-an-abusive-relationship", "topics": "Domestic Violence,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm in love with a sex offender, but my family doesn't accept him. He told me that he registered sex offender but he didn't do anything. He took a plea to always register as sex offender and he did two years. I always believe the past should be left in past. But my roommates, their family and my son are unforgiving. Should I forgive this man that I'm falling in love with or should I dump him?\nTherapist: Trust is a huge thing in relationships and when that is broken, or perceived as being broken, it takes a long time to repair. From what you shared, it sounds like your boyfriend took steps to correct the situation and has shown to be trustworthy since. Unfortunately, no matter how much we apologize for something we did or for something others perceive we did, there will always be those with hardened hearts and will not forgive. If you feel confident in your relationship, then trust your inner wisdom. We cannot control others but only ourselves.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-in-love-with-a-sex-offender-but-my-family-doesn-t-accept-him", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I weigh over 220 pounds and I am 16 years old. About 3 years ago or so I was skinny, but I was still ugly. I really do want to change that but I've tried 3 times. At school I get bullied about my weight and my ugliness and I have been bullied my whole life that I believe them. How can I stop thinking about them and don't let it get in my head? My parents said I don't weight that much but, they do think I am fat but, they tell me I am not.\nTherapist: I am so impressed with your efforts to ask questions, to figure out how to change the messages that you hear (and say to yourself), and to get support! And it sounds like you want to make some changes in your life! Take a walk over to the counseling office at school, the school nurse or consider reaching out to your Pediatrician\u2019s office. You don\u2019t have to have your parent\u2019s permission to seek support for yourself!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-weigh-over-220-pounds-and-i-am-16-years-old", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: I'm a 19 year old male with low self esteem. I've always been very closed off about my feelings and problems. A few nights ago I talked to this girl I know about my self esteem issues for the first time. I really started to feel better about myself by the time I woke up the next morning. Now, though, I can't stop thinking about her, but I leave to go back to college in a few days and I go to school 4 hours away from her. So now I feel constantly depressed because even if I told her how I felt it wouldn't matter. I feel helpless and I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: It takes a lot of courage to share your feelings with someone! And it sounds like you have been lucky to meet someone who makes you feel safe enough to explore some of your more painful feelings. A big part of the process, however, of strengthening your self-concept is learning how to tell yourself those positive messages that you heard from your friend! Ask your friends and family to contribute to the list. Then carry it with you in your wallet - and when you need a self-esteem boost, take a look at it!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-a-19-year-old-male-with-low-self-esteem-i-ve-always-been-very-closed-off-about-my-feelings-and-problems", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I lied to my mom, then felt bad and told her the truth. She cried because she lost all trust in me. Now I feel disgusting and like my heart just got stabbed, what do I do?\nTherapist: Sounds like the part of you that knows the RIGHT thing to do won here! I am so proud of you for admitting that you lied to your Mom! Sometimes lies come out of our mouths before we can even catch them because we are trying to say what the other person wants to hear. Be open with your feelings with you Mom - she is there to support you, guide you and love you! Give her lots of hugs - and give yourself one too for being so brave!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-lied-to-my-mom-then-felt-bad-and-told-her-the-truth", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I tell my husband I love him. But I don't believe it or feel it. When having sex I think of other men and want other men all day long. Been married 3 years, together 14. What do you think?\nTherapist: Sustaining passion in marriage is tough stuff. It's a relatively modern dilemma you are facing with perhaps unrealistic expectations of what marriage \"should\" be. It sounds like your definitions of love and sexual passion have merged together, that's both common and confusing! Intimacy and sexuality within your marriage are bound to ebb and flow. Resparking your passion will involve growing. Using your sexual drama and fantasies as windows into discovering your needs (security) and wants (desires). Marriage is a people growing process; you mature into one another and to achieve fulfillment your continued development will be required.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-tell-my-husband-i-love-him-but-i-don-t-believe-it-or-feel-it", "topics": "Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do couples keep from being at risk for divorce? nan\nTherapist: The Gottmans have been studying relationships in their \"love lab\"\u00a0for over 4 decades and what they've found is pretty awesome. There are 4 things that,\u00a0when added together and built up over time, predict divorce: criticism, defensiveness, contempt & stonewalling. The awesome news is that they've also identified antidotes; gentle start ups, taking responsibility, discussing your feelings and needs (not to be confused with what you need from your partner) and self soothing. To learn more, pick up a copy of Gottman's \"The\u00a07 Principals For Making Marriage Work\" or seek out a Gottman trained couples therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-couples-keep-from-being-at-risk-for-divorce", "topics": "Marriage,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: My wife and I have been married for over 3 years and we're tired of having sex. We make love once per month. Is it normal?\nTherapist: To begin with, what's normal for one couple isn't going to be normal for the next, every couple has their own normal and that's important to keep in mind. What I'd be more curious about is the quality rather than the quantity of the sex you are having. I'd also want you both to refocus on building up your little daily moments of connection, I wrote a post about exactly that a while back and you can find it here.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-and-i-have-been-married-for-over-3-years-and-we-re-tired-of-having-sex", "topics": "Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I feel like my friends are ganging up on me. In this argument my friends are all against me so I'm wondering if I'm exaggerating my feelings. I feel like I'm being attacked and that is making me blow things out of proportion and taking the role of the victim, when in reality I'm the one being unreasonable and I am simply annoying my reasonable friends. Or are they really being insensitive and not respecting me in our friendship?\nTherapist: Conflict is a tricky beast and shows up in every\u00a0one of our relationships. What I'm reading is that you find yourself in a loop of \u00a0seeking validation of your thoughts and feelings from your friends rather than validating yourself. If you aren't validating yourself, no one else will be able to either. Try finding a small nugget of truth in the feedback your friends give you, this will help to lower your defenses and help your friends hear what you are really sharing. And then if you are still feeling vulnerable, share that too...", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-my-friends-are-ganging-up-on-me", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I had a baby about 2 months ago and I really haven't been feeling myself. I am always down and out. Could this be postpartum depression?\nTherapist: I always tell the new parents I work with (and this is just as true for dads as it is for moms) that if you are feeling off, seek help. Postpartum Support International (www.postpartum.net) is a great place to start finding resources and locating support.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-had-a-baby-about-2-months-ago-and-i-really-haven-t-been-feeling-myself", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Recently found out it resulted in a child. I want our family to be together and happy. My wife wants to leave and I don't want that to happen I love her so much. They love us both and want our family together.\nTherapist: If your wife is willing, seek out a qualified couples therapist! Look for one trained in the Gottman Method or Emotionally Focused Therapy. Your relationship is repairable, but you may need some qualified support in the process.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-had-an-affair-almost-two-decades-ago-recently-found-out-it-resulted-in-a-child", "topics": "Family Conflict,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I'm having a lot of conflict in my relationship. We do communicate but one of us has trouble accepting what the other person says. How can I fix things?\nTherapist: Being able to accept your partner's influence is a key relationship skill. Chances are if you don't feel your partner is being influenced by you, they likely don't feel you are being influenced by them either. The best fix you can practice is to soften yourself into your partner and see how much more open you can be to their influence.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-having-a-lot-of-conflict-in-my-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My wife has a diminished libido, and is faking orgasms and denying it. My wife and I are newly married, about 2 months. Tonight she made a genuine effort to let me know she wanted sex, which is a big deal. I was honest with her about why, and told her that the most important thing to me in sex was knowing that she was legitimately enjoying it. She responded angrily with a complete denial of the faking. I think she will continue to lie to me about faking it which will cause our sex life to spiral further.\nTherapist: You are newly married, you Have a hectic schedule, your wife is on anti anxiety medication. What if you take the focus (hint: pressure) off of her orgasms and focus instead on connecting with one another. You know, like the gestures you each likely made while dating. It turns out that these little moments of connection throughout our days are actually foreplay.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-has-a-diminished-libido-and-is-faking-orgasms-and-denying-it-what-do-i-do", "topics": "Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with losing my mom? nan\nTherapist: First, I want to say how sorry I am for your loss. The grief of losing a parent can be very difficult to work through. When you lose someone you love, you are forever changed. The goal of working through any loss is to reach a \"new normal.\" One of the best things you can do is find a good support system. You need to talk about your loss, and talk about it a lot. They are hugely beneficial since the group will understand exactly how you feel. If you find you are still struggling, a good grief counselor will also help.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-losing-my-mom", "topics": "Grief and Loss"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with \"never being good enough?\". I'm always told I'm not good enough or trying hard enough. I put 100% in to every thing. I'm worn out, I've worked on all of my family relationships, I'm doing great in school, I'm kind to those in need and otherwise. I stick to my religious beliefs and leave room for mistakes and learn from others so I don't have to make as many and the ones I do I learn from.  Somehow it's still not good enough and nothing I do works. Nothing has changed, and I feel hopeless. Any suggestions or ideas?\nTherapist: Hello, and let me say first, what a great question! There are so many people putting forth their 100% everyday and often times, do not get the credit they deserve. First, I think it's important for us to consider the message being sent by those in your life stating that you're \"not good enough.\" NO ONE will ever be 100% \"good enough\" for EVERYONE. After all, tomorrow is a new day and you can work on more of your goals tomorrow!I recommend doing this by finding a mantra, a statement or phrase you can repeat to yourself anytime you start to feel that sense of stress and pressure from striving for perfection.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-never-being-good-enough", "topics": "Family Conflict,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with \"never being good enough?\". I'm always told I'm not good enough or trying hard enough. I put 100% in to every thing. I'm worn out, I've worked on all of my family relationships, I'm doing great in school, I'm kind to those in need and otherwise. I stick to my religious beliefs and leave room for mistakes and learn from others so I don't have to make as many and the ones I do I learn from.  Somehow it's still not good enough and nothing I do works. Nothing has changed, and I feel hopeless. Any suggestions or ideas?\nTherapist: The feeling of never feeling good enough usually stems from our early relationship with our\u00a0parents or significant role models who made us to feel we were never good enough to meet their standards. In the healing process, you'll need to work on discovering the root source of where these thoughts and feelings come from and then learn to accept yourself just as you are unconditionally. I'd be pleased to help you in this process. I provide online private counseling through proventherapy.com.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-never-being-good-enough", "topics": "Family Conflict,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: I have been in a relationship for a year and 7 months these few weeks have been bad. He's been losing feelings and he doesn't know why. I give him his space and I make sure he's okay but  sometimes I think if me and him saw each other more it would be better? I just don't know why he's been losing feelings towards me. At this point I'll do anything to just make us better as a couple. I tried talking to him but he doesn't like talking about it much.\nTherapist: I'm willing to bet that this isn't what you are hoping to hear, but I'd suggest giving him space. But here's the thing, when you keep trying to process and talk it out with him you keep pushing him away. He needs to feel like a solid and whole person (as you do too) to be able to be fully in your relationship. It's the work of being in relationship to learn this. That's the stuff for you to tune into and focus on right now.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-been-in-a-relationship-for-a-year-and-7-months-these-few-weeks-have-been-bad", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do you deal with mental illness (depression, anxiety) in a relationship? nan\nTherapist: Anxiety and depression are part of the\u00a0lenses from which you and partner see your world and relationship. Understanding your own and one another's triggers are the key to building a\u00a0successful relationship. My colleague and\u00a0co-host for this Friday's free\u00a0relationship Q&A webinar, Robyn D'Angelo, talks about loving your anxious partner in this brief vlog,\u00a0loving your anxious partner\u00a0and also was featured on a wonderful podcast about making anxiety into your relationship superpower here.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-deal-with-mental-illness-depression-anxiety-in-a-relationship", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I break an unhealthy relationship pattern? I want a secure relationship with someone that wants to be with me and who will actually put effort into it. I seem to gravitate toward unavailable men and those that want intimacy and no relationship. I let men dictate and control me because they accuse me of being controlling. I am not comfortable being alone or doing anything by myself. I feel I need the security of someone being around just to survive. I know what I'm doing wrong and I do it anyway just hoping things will change. How do I stop this behavior and thought process?\nTherapist: You may be interested in reading my most recent post, Intimacy Begins With You. In it I offer 7 expert tips to help you get started on a path of self connection and discovery. This is important stuff to do in order to work through that stuff that's holding you back from the relationships you desire. You may find that it's especially helpful to do this work with the alliance of a skilled individual therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-break-an-unhealthy-relationship-pattern", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: I want to get back with my kid's mother and be a family again. I regret ever hurting her and they mean the world to me. But it feels like nothing I do seem to work. I'll always love them no matter what and when I'm with them nothing else matters. I love them more then anything. I don't want another guy raising my kids.\nTherapist: How you you expressed your regret and taken responsibility for the pain thus far? Repair is a very essential skill in and part of developing healthy relationships. You get to feel your hurt too and your kids. In feeling all this you may also find our way to the repair. If feeling all this is tough to take on, seek out a local therapist to support your process.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-get-back-with-my-kid-s-mother-and-be-a-family-again", "topics": "Parenting,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do balance attention between my girlfriend and my dogs? I have dog obsession disorder and I am having problems with my girlfriend because I am placing more importance to my two dogs over her. How do I get over this problem and prioritize my girlfriend over my two dogs?\nTherapist: They adore pleasing humans and often LOVE to work on learning what you want and expect from them. Your girlfriend on the other hand, likely has her own desires and needs that she attend to before tuning into yours. You are good with dogs, that tells me that you've spent some time observing their behavior. The first step in working through this issue would be similar, start to tune into and observe your girlfriend more often... Observation is a skill when it comes to relationship building. And keep in mind that also means observing yourself in relationships.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-balance-attention-between-my-girlfriend-and-my-dogs", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I recently lied to my fianc\u00e9 about my past. I find myself lying about small everyday things that there is really no need to lie about. How do I figure out what triggers me to do this? And how do I help overcome this problem? I would like to become more honest and open no matter the situation.\nTherapist: Well let's start with the awesome realization you've already had, you want to notice that you have triggers. I find that when people lie, it's most often as a defense mechanism. Which is likely a flag that something doesn't feel safe. What exactly doesn't feel safe could be lots of different things but the key to notice is that it's that feeling of insecurity that is very likely triggering you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-recently-lied-to-my-fianc-about-my-past", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with depersonalisation and derealisation? nan\nTherapist: Typically depersonalization disorder is diagnosed and treated through the use of medication and psychotherapy. I recommend that you look within your insurance network for a provider that offers ongoing therapy services for these concerns. It is important to have these concerns treated through more conventional means.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-depersonalisation-and-derealisation", "topics": NaN}, {"text": "User: I keep on changing my life when things get tough. I've been like this ever since I was in school; back then I transferred to another school. Now I'm thinking about changing my job.\nTherapist: I recommend that you make a list of all the reasons you should change your life and all of the reasons you shouldn't change your life. Is there others you can lean on for support? Are there other people you know who have been through a similar experience and are willing to share their story with you? It is important to rely on your support network to help you get multiple points of view. If you believe you need additional help, I suggest seeing a professional.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-keep-on-changing-my-life-when-things-get-tough", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: How can I be more confident around girls? I keep hearing I am attractive from people around me, and I think I believe it. But I have low confidence regarding approaching girls I like.\nTherapist: I recommend that you focus on the negative thoughts or irrational beliefs that are going through your mind at the time in which you are trying to approach a girl. Once you recognize the thought or belief, I would like you to picture a big red stop sign. This is a technique to use to stop unwanted or unhealthy thoughts. Then, I would like you to think of a more positive thought to replace it with such as: Negative thought: \"That girl will never go out with me\" STOP Positive thought: \"I won't know if she will go out with me unless I ask\". What this does is increase your self confidence by replacing your negative thoughts with positive ones that will ultimately boost your self esteem.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-more-confident-around-girls", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Me and my girlfriend of 7 years are looking for some free couples counseling in Modesto, CA. We have been fighting a lot and have 3 kids but we both want to stay together. I need some help to save our family.\nTherapist: Hello, I do not live in the California area. However, perhaps I could make some suggestions as to where you might look for free counseling. First, I must mention that most insurances now cover for many different types of issues, including family issues. If your girlfriend lives with you, most insurances now cover \"live-in partners,\" as well. If you have insurance, contact your policy provider and ask whether or not couples counseling is included. Many of the pastors or leaders in these disciplines have significant training in counseling, as well as assisting with marriage and couples counseling. If you find there are no such groups in your area, there are anonymous, support groups online.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/me-and-my-girlfriend-of-7-years-are-looking-for-some-free-couples-counseling-in-modesto-ca", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My ex-boyfriend and I broke up about 3 months ago and now he wants me back. I'm currently dating someone else and I really like him. But I love and miss my ex so much. What do I do?\nTherapist: Finding the right person is a tricky thing to do. Why did you and your ex break up 3 months ago? Sometimes you may enjoy that reflection, other times it may not feel so good. I'm not sure where you are in your life and relationships and what you do from here depends on what you desire more of in your life. If one of these guys was to support you...who would help you reach your dreams? And who would you enjoy spending time with? It's complicated and no one can answer the 'what to do' question but you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-ex-boyfriend-and-i-broke-up-about-3-months-ago-and-now-he-wants-me-back", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with the feelings like I'm not good enough? I feel like I have to be promiscuous in order to keep people around? It started after I got raped by my ex-boyfriend.\nTherapist: I recommend that you seek professional services to address the trauma you experienced. EMDR has been proven to be very effective in treating trauma. In addition, a support group might be helpful to find a more stable support network. Either a support group for victims of rape or sex/love addiction www.sa.org sound appropriate. Whichever group resonates the most with you will be the most helpful. If you have any additional questions or concerns, please feel free to ask.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-the-feelings-like-i-m-not-good-enough", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: I cheated on my husband with one of his good friends a few years ago. We kissed and he grabbed my boobs and we exchanged some texts and a few calls. His wife (my good friend) saw us kiss once and told my husband. A year later she told him a couple of other things. They are now divorced and my husband and I have been happy. A few weeks ago the wife called me and said that her now ex told her more stuff we did. I decided to just tell my husband everything.\nTherapist: The issue at hand here is that you're betrayal broke his trust. In order to repair your relationship you will both need to\u00a0confront the infidelity. And both of you will need to honor yourselves by communicating your feelings and ensuring that those feelings are heard and validated. It would be really helpful to do this work with a Gottman or Emotionally Focused Couples Therapist. Gottman's The Science of Trust and What Makes Love Last would both be helpful reference books to guide you along.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-cheated-on-my-husband-with-one-of-his-good-friends-a-few-years-ago", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: About a year ago I found out my husband had cheated on me. Cheating is something unacceptable for me but because we have two daughters I decided not to break up the family. However, now I am struggling to forget and forgive what happened. I feel like I cannot trust him. Without trust, I cannot stay in this relationship. On the other hand, I do not want my children to get hurt. I'm not sure how to move forward?\nTherapist: Let's just start with acknowledging that trust is huge and betrayal hurts. You're entitled to your feelings; all of them and you need to know that your husband understands you. That said some ways are more effective at rebuilding and repairing relationships that others. I am a big fan of The Gottman Method for couples therapy, especially following infedienity. You can read about this approach in Gottman's books: \"The Science of Trust\" and \"Making Love Last\" and/or you can seek a Gottman Certified couples therapist here:\u00a0https://www.gottman.com/private-therapy/", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/about-a-year-ago-i-found-out-my-husband-had-cheated-on-me", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How do I quit letting little things bother me and be the mom that my kids deserve? nan\nTherapist: When you can let in and celebrate the good stuff everything will start to find more balance. Our brains are fine tuned to focus on and highlight all the icky ugly stuff and file it away to try and avoid it in the future. We don't process the good stuff in the same way. It's left over from our ancestral days when we needed to survive the saber tooth tiger but it doesn't always work so well these days. Slowing down and being mindful of the little things, celebrating the tiniest details of what works...that's how you counter act that stuff.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-quit-letting-little-things-bother-me-and-be-the-mom-that-my-kids-deserve", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I have come to the realization that my boyfriend and I want different things. He lives three hours away and likes the reassurance of having someone to talk to multiple times per day and seeing me once or twice a month. I want someone who is more present and more of a life companion. I told him that I can't continue in this way because I constantly feel frustrated and angry and that he is not making the relationship enough of a priority. The problem is that I panic and experience anxiety and depression thinking of him with someone else and then thinking I will never meet someone I like.\nTherapist: Sounds like your panic is less about loosing the relationship you are in (which by the way doesn't sound like it's meeting YOUR need for connection) and more about being alone. Being with him is serving you, even if the relationship is less than ideal, from being alone. You'd have to learn to love and care for and cherish yourself. All important skills and tasks in maturing and growing up, but scary none the less. What if...What if you gave yourself permission to be in a relationship with YOU?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-come-to-the-realization-that-my-boyfriend-and-i-want-different-things", "topics": "Relationships,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Should I be concerned that my boyfriend will not introduce me to a female friend. He goes out with her to dinner/brunch/movies when we are not together (we live 2 hours apart).\nTherapist: Would you have the same desire to meet this friend if she were a he? If you are concerned that their friendship is a substitute for you when you aren't present,\u00a0talk to him. It sounds like you are concerned that he is building an emotional intimacy with her and spending time doing the sort of things with her that you'd otherwise be doing with him. Help him understand why this bothers you but try to also be open to allowing him to make friends. Is the issue that he hasn't introduced you? Is there another reason you don't trust their friendship?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-be-concerned-that-my-boyfriend-will-not-introduce-me-to-a-female-friend", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I feel like I could never be with anyone because no one would want me. What do I do if I have been feeling like I could never be with anyone because no one would want me. Or I couldn't have many friends because of who I am. It's strange I want to be loved but I'd hate to be because I always lose.\nTherapist: What would make you feel no one wants to be with you?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-i-could-never-be-with-anyone-because-no-one-would-want-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What do you do if your partner isn't satisfying your needs sexually? nan\nTherapist: Depends: \u00a0What do would you like to see happen?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-do-you-do-if-your-partner-isn-t-satisfying-your-needs-sexually", "topics": "Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Am I unworthy of being in a meaningful relationship? I'm in a relationship, but I feel like I'm always putting more into it and not getting reciprocated. My ex told me that I will never find anyone else, and that's lingering in the back of my mind.\nTherapist: The most crucial key to any relationship is that mutual feeling you hold between you both: that you matter. Sounds like you are stuck in a cycle of hearing your ex say you don't matter. However it ended, clearly though that's the sentiment that's lingering with you. So here you are hanging around a new man why is telling you the same message. You aren't unworthy, you just haven't found a man who is worthy of you! To be worthy of you, he must see your worth. Often though before anyone else can see your worth, you have to believe it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-unworthy-of-being-in-a-meaningful-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I communicate with my boyfriend of ten years without him feeling like I'm attacking him? nan\nTherapist: To follow please find some tips on getting your message across to each other, which will help you both stay emotionally connected in a healthy respectful way!Step 1: Start with I...+ feeling (For example, I feel angry because...)Step 2: About what... (Not describing your partner but the situation.) Step 3: What needed...(How partner make it better) We want to be soft on the person but hard on the issue. It is\u00a0important for us to be soft on the person, but tough on the issue. And at the end, say what can be done to make things right. I am wishing you and your boyfriend the very best.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-communicate-with-my-boyfriend-of-ten-years-without-him-feeling-like-i-m-attacking-him", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I am fearful of social situations and avoiding people all together. This is preventing me from getting a job. I have bad relationship with my bipolar mother. I am living with her but it stresses me out so much to be around her that I have locked myself in my room. I have no friends or other family to help me. I have no money for therapy, but I think I need therapy before I can secure a job.\nTherapist: A good first step would be to make an appointment with your primary care provider & discuss your concerns. They would have resources available to help in your particular situation.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-fearful-of-social-situations-and-avoiding-people-all-together", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I train myself to stop eating when I'm full? I have no self control over food. Most people stop when they've had enough, but I keep eating for the pleasure of it. Especially with sweets - I'm never done eating dessert.\nTherapist: I'm so glad you decided to write in today. There are a few different ways we can look at in understanding your concern. First, I think it's important to understand food is just food. We have food at every gathering and every celebration. During these moments, I like to have my clients employ a Stop-and-Think method. If the donut really is a special donut (from the best bakery in town and you've never been there before) then now might be a time to have the donut. Are you trying to feel better and the food gives you that feeling for a brief moment?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-train-myself-to-stop-eating-when-i-m-full", "topics": "Eating Disorders,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: How can I train myself to stop eating when I'm full? I have no self control over food. Most people stop when they've had enough, but I keep eating for the pleasure of it. Especially with sweets - I'm never done eating dessert.\nTherapist: I would recommend removing yourself from the environment you are in after you have finished eating. A simple walk around the block, calling up a friend and going to visit, or even going to another room in the house can help. If you find that you truly have no self control over food, I recommend attending Overeaters Anonymous; a 12 step group for those with compulsive issues related to food.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-train-myself-to-stop-eating-when-i-m-full", "topics": "Eating Disorders,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: What can I communicate with a person who is sensitive to negativity in a disagreement? I know someone who is extremely sensitive to stress and very sensitive to a negative tone of voice. Sometimes during a disagreement he tells me that my communication is having a harmful impact on him. Once he believes I am being negative I can't seem to find a better way of communicating. In fact, it is often a self fulling prophesy because his accusatory manner becomes unbearably frustrating.   What advice might you offer?\nTherapist: With any type of criticism, it is usually best to introduce the topic at a neutral time, ie: when both of you are relaxed, with no current stressors involved, having fun, etc. Wait for him to respond to your matter-of-fact statement. No matter what his response is, stick to your same message - don't get overwhelmed by trying to rephrase or explain your view as that will likely set you up for continued arguing. You can even add, \"I agree I could have misunderstood \u00a0it (event).... I just know it made me feel uneasy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-communicate-with-a-person-who-is-sensitive-to-negativity-in-a-disagreement", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My new husband is constantly talking to himself. When I ask him who he is talking to, he tells me no one. But, it sounds like he is holding a conversation with someone. I have even accused him of having a secret cell phone. I ask so much, I feel like I am losing it.  Is he trying to make me question my sanity, or is he talking to himself?\nTherapist: A rare topic & likely extremely troublesome for you... I would need to have more background information on the two of you before beginning to offer any insight. I would also like to add that aside from the reality of whether or not these conversations are actually occurring, as your partner, he should be just as concerned about something that is disturbing you to this level. Partners need each others' trust and support, no matter who is right or wrong.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-new-husband-is-constantly-talking-to-himself", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What is the proper procedure if your child's therapist is leaving the practice to work elsewhere? nan\nTherapist: When terminating employment, counselors need to make sure they don't abandon their clients. There are several ways a counselor can avoid abandoning a client. First, the counselor can refer the client to another clinician at the place of employment. Second, the counselor could refer the client to another clinician outside of the place of employment. Third, the counselor could continue to work with the client in the new place of employment. In the end, the best interest of the client should be the the basis for which option is selected.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-proper-procedure-if-your-child-s-therapist-is-leaving-the-practice-to-work-elsewhere", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: Is it unethical to have a relationship with a fellow counselor? Does this go against any ethical codes? Are there legal ramifications?\nTherapist: Generally, the ethical codes only prohibit relationships with clients. There are however a few types of counselor-to-counselor relationships that are prohibited by the ethics codes. Such prohibited relationships include those between supervisors and supervisees; between professors and students; or any time the relationship might negatively impact your (or their) clients. Lastly, some workplaces have rules against dating coworkers. It would be a good idea to check if there is such a rule that applies to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-unethical-to-have-a-relationship-with-a-fellow-counselor", "topics": "Workplace Relationships,Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: Is work burnout a real condition? nan\nTherapist: Work can take a significant toll on a person in many ways. There are several things you can do to manage burnout at work. Depending on your specific work environment, some of these might be more realistic than others. It may help to set firm boundaries between your work life and your personal life. Also, it often help s to create some variation in your work schedule or work tasks. At times, burnout can also stem from a lack of challenge at work. Feelings of being burned out by work might be a sign that it's time for a change.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-work-burnout-a-real-condition", "topics": "Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: There's this girl I've been dating for months. We went out had great sex and I was really liking her. Then one day she says we should just be friends, but I can't stop thinking about her. She's always on mind and I want her back.\nTherapist: It can be really difficult when someone you care about doesn't feel the same about you. The most important thing to remember is that you can not make her feel a certain way. There is nothing you can do to force her to want to be in a relationship with you. In the end, if she \"just wants to be friends\" then she's probably not the right match for you. Remember, every relationship ends - until that last one that doesn't.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/there-s-this-girl-i-ve-been-dating-for-months", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I lied to my mom, then felt bad and told her the truth. She cried because she lost all trust in me. Now I feel disgusting and like my heart just got stabbed, what do I do?\nTherapist: It sounds like you've already learned that just being honest is often the best approach. What do you think about telling your mom how you're feeling? She might really appreciate it if you also let her know that regaining her trust is really important to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-lied-to-my-mom-then-felt-bad-and-told-her-the-truth", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do I communicate with my boyfriend of ten years without him feeling like I'm attacking him? nan\nTherapist: The research of Dr.\u00a0John Gottman\u00a0shows that there are 4 negative communication patterns that many couples find themselves in that create conflict: criticism, defensiveness, contempt & stonewalling. 1) you are being mean 2) you triggered an old wound. As Dr. Gottman says, most couples disconnect because of 'mindlessness, not malice.' Learning how to tune into one another and get past your own stuffs, that's what forms the foundation for lasting relationships.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-communicate-with-my-boyfriend-of-ten-years-without-him-feeling-like-i-m-attacking-him", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Any suggestions for erection problems? I'm a 40 year old male and having erection problems. Still have the desire for a woman. Awfully frustrated. Any suggestions? My Doc doesn't want to discuss it.\nTherapist: When a doc blows you off it may be a signal that it is time to find a new one! If all physical possibilities are ruled out then it's time to look within and enlist the help of a sex therapist. Here's a good article for you to start with.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/any-suggestions-for-erection-problems", "topics": "Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: What do you do if your partner isn't satisfying your needs sexually? nan\nTherapist: Talking to your partner about what's off \u00a0would be a good place to start, but sometimes that can be really hard to muster the courage to do alone. It may not feel emotionally safe to dive into. This is where couples, and even more specifically, sex therapy can be really helpful. Therapy with a qualified professional can help to hold a safe and supportive space for you and your partner to open and explore these dynamics. You can also pick up some amazing books like Passionate Marriage\u00a0which could be what you need to get that conversation started.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-do-you-do-if-your-partner-isn-t-satisfying-your-needs-sexually", "topics": "Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I feel like I could never be with anyone because no one would want me. What do I do if I have been feeling like I could never be with anyone because no one would want me. Or I couldn't have many friends because of who I am. It's strange I want to be loved but I'd hate to be because I always lose.\nTherapist: As a relationship therapist I work with a lot of people who feel similar feelings to some degree or another and almost always find that the origin of these feelings point back towards childhood. How did they express (or not express) love towards one another. These early messages become your template for how you have learned to see yourself and what you expect from others. In his book\u00a0Wired for Love,\u00a0Stan Tatkin, PsyD writes\u00a0\u201cWe learn to love ourselves precisely because we have experienced being loved by someone. This could be very fruitful to explore in individual therapy with a relationship therapist who really gets it, you may have to interview a few to find the right fit; that's OK. And now that you have be kind with yourself, it begins there too.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-i-could-never-be-with-anyone-because-no-one-would-want-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I just found out my boyfriend has been cheating on me. He is in his late thirties and I am in my mid twenties. We have been together for about 5 months. I really like him. He says he cares about me and is willing to fight to make things right. He has been very apologetic and expressed he did it out of fear. I don't know if it's worth giving him a second chance.\nTherapist: Cheating is often a sign that something is amiss in the relationship. While it's possible to repair relationships after a betrayal it's also challenging to do, especially so early in your relationship. I can't tell you if you should/shouldn't give this relationship a second chance but I will tell you to tune into your own intuition (and follow your own fears in doing so, they often are incredibly informative when we don't push them away with denial).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-just-found-out-my-boyfriend-has-been-cheating-on-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My new husband constantly talks to himself. However, it seems as though he is really talking to someone other than himself. I have even accused him of having a secret phone. Is he trying to make me crazy on purpose, or is he really talking to himself?\nTherapist: Some people simply talk to themselves as a way of processing information. Have you checked in with your husband about this in a non-accusatory way? Something like \"Hey babe (or whatever sweet name you typically use), I'm so curious what that's all about? Do you notice that you are talking out loud?\" Chances are it's just how he thinks things through and is not at all about trying to make you crazy, it's just one of his quirks you'll grow to endear. Early married life is a time full of discovering one another's quirks!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-new-husband-constantly-talks-to-himself", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I am in my mid-40s and am currently mending a broken heart over another failed relationship. I keep getting into relationships with men that are in bad situations. I take them on and help them and do all I can and the relationship still fails. How do I learn to not get in relationships with men in bad situations? I see someone in need of help, I jump in. And it is getting me nowhere. I am alone sad and frustrated.\nTherapist: Sounds like you already see what's amiss. And when they are fixed, what do they have to give you? What if you found someone who didn't need fixing?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-in-my-mid-40s-and-am-currently-mending-a-broken-heart-over-another-failed-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My relationship feels off and I feel insecure. My girlfriend's grandma passed away 5 months ago. Things kinda returned to normal few weeks later. Last month it feels like we hit a brick wall. She says she can't connect with anyone and that it's not me. Now she gives short answers and has no interest in sex or any touching. When we did have sex in the last month, something felt really off.\nTherapist: Grief has a huge impact on us and everyone's reaction is different. The one common reaction however is to shut down and distance ourselves. Her relationship with her grandmother was close, given she took care of her up until she passed. It sounds like she is working through a difficult loss and her ability to connect with you, or anyone else, is likely low right now. Trust what she is telling you and try to be there for her as she works through it. If she finds it too difficult to connect again, a good grief counselor can help her get back on track.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-relationship-feels-off-and-i-feel-insecure", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible to get PTSD from being very depressed? I have manic depression and last summer was very very bad. I have recurring nightmares and I avoid anything that will give me a similar feeling as I did that summer.\nTherapist: Depression can not not generally cause PTSD. Your question does make a lot of sense, though. A counselor in your area should be able to help you what's going on - either feelings of depression, PTSD, or both.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-to-get-ptsd-from-being-very-depressed", "topics": "Trauma,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I find happiness after my boyfriend passed away? I loved him more than anything. He passed away on our anniversary which was also the day I was going to apply for our apartment. I'm not handling it well. I moved to a new town and started a new life but nothing helps.\nTherapist: Grief is unpredictable and does not fit into rules and stereotypes. No matter how much we may want to escape the pain and accelerate the process by doing all the 'right' things we have been told will help with our bereavement, there is only one way: through...The more we allow the pain to go through us, experience it, accept it, acknowledge it, make peace with it, the more we will heal. Yet every time they catch us by surprise. Express your emotions, every single one of them, both positive and negative. The more you chase and wait for happiness, the more it will elude you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-happiness-after-my-boyfriend-passed-away", "topics": "Grief and Loss"}, {"text": "User: How can I get clarity for myself and move on in a healthy manner? I have recently separated from my husband whom I have been with for 5 years.  Throughout our 5 years together, I have stood by him through 2 affairs, him talking to other women while I was pregnant, his drug abuse and thru verbal and physical abuse.\nTherapist: It usually boils down to a lack of self esteem, self love and self acceptance. If for whatever reason the 'scripts' we have been told about ourselves from others, or what we have witnessed as children has become our beliefs about what to expect from life and others, have been negative, it is hard to imagine a different reality for ourselves. Putting up with a loved one's drug addiction, their infidelity, lack of respect and esteem, verbal and physical abuse, tend to show and reflect the degree of our lack of self esteem, lack of sense of self worth, lack of belief that we are worth and deserve more from life. Working with a therapist/counselor will help you understand the mechanisms and learn how to build a healthy sense of self esteem. Get a good sense of who you are and what you want.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-clarity-for-myself-and-move-on-in-a-healthy-manner", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: I'm in a relationship with my fianc\u00e9 and I currently found out that she's been cheating on me with a co-worker. I understand what she did was wrong, but I want to spend the rest of my life with her. She forgave me for what I've done to her and since then I been completely faithful. I'm worried about our relationship and want to move forward  but its been very unsettling. All I can think about is her with another man. I don't know what to do or where to go for advice?\nTherapist: My first question for you would be to see if you've talked with her about it yet? You mentioned you found out....and I know this can be so painful. It can also be frightening to bring up the experience when it hurts a lot, when you feel so unsettled as you mention. It may be incredibly helpful to find a counselor you can both go talk with. Having a third party who is neutral and cares about your process and hers can be such a relief when you need to discuss things you feel scared about.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-fianc-cheated-how-can-we-mend-our-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm in a relationship with my fianc\u00e9 and I currently found out that she's been cheating on me with a co-worker. I understand what she did was wrong, but I want to spend the rest of my life with her. She forgave me for what I've done to her and since then I been completely faithful. I'm worried about our relationship and want to move forward  but its been very unsettling. All I can think about is her with another man. I don't know what to do or where to go for advice?\nTherapist: Hello, I know this is a tough situation your going through and it has you questioning everything but one thing is certain, and that is that you still love her, dealing with the hurt can be very challenging but after learning from your mistake you changed and became more faithful and loving and the comfort knowing she forgave you, is what made you love her more and less likely to hurt her once again. You live and you learn, she will soon realize her mistake and her outtake may be the same yours was. Practice in your pre-marriage state with speaking to her and opening up to eachother about what you feel and what you look forward to in this marriage.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-fianc-cheated-how-can-we-mend-our-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My ex left without fully explaining but I feel broken and empty. About 5 months ago my ex left without fully explaining why. I don't miss her as much as I used to but I just don't trust people anymore, not even my friends who I have known since my childhood not even my family. I'm scared to because I don't want it to be taken away from me again. I feel like ever lesson I learn only last a day. I'm working at a place I know I should enjoy.\nTherapist: I'm sure your doing your best to overcome this feeling but seem to be struggling with your own happiness. Give this some time and don't close yourself off to the world or the people who love you. And know that no matter what reason your ex walked out of your life, she missed out on how great of a person you truly are and may have had personal issues of her own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-ex-left-without-fully-explaining-but-i-feel-broken-and-empty", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My companion tells me he wants nothing to do with me. Then turn right back around and say he loves me and needs me. This rollercoaster is crazy.\nTherapist: Your partners obviously very confused when it comes to love. Sometimes people shy away from good and positive relationships and companionship because their afraid. They know that it's something worth holding on to but most feel they can't handle it and can't meet up to their partners expectations. Your partner loves you but must have fear that keeps standing in his way. It could also mean their afraid of getting hurt or disapointed in the long run. Give your partner comfort and reassurance that they can come to you to confide in you about anything that may be bothering them.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-companion-tells-me-he-wants-nothing-to-do-with-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why am I dreaming so much? Sometimes 3 times a night.\nTherapist: Dreaming is a normal (and healthy) part of the sleep cycle. The current thought is that we all generally experience roughly the same number of dreams - the difference often is just whether we remember the dreams or not. An increase in the number or frequency of distressing dreams (or nightmares) can be a symptom of stress, anxiety, or PTSD. If the dreams are disturbing to you, talking to a local counselor could help. If the dreams themselves are not troubling, you may just be remembering them more than most people do.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-dreaming-so-much", "topics": "Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: I'm in a relationship with my fianc\u00e9 and I currently found out that she's been cheating on me with a co-worker. I understand what she did was wrong, but I want to spend the rest of my life with her. She forgave me for what I've done to her and since then I been completely faithful. I'm worried about our relationship and want to move forward  but its been very unsettling. All I can think about is her with another man. I don't know what to do or where to go for advice?\nTherapist: I'm sorry for the stress and unhappiness stemming the problem you describe. Trust your instinct that there is more complexity to feeling good about being in a partnership than simply wanting this to happen. In any relationship, the complexities of each person combine. Often people accept when this feels good and are lost as to what to do when natural human complexity, doesn't match up with our partner in the way we'd like. The unique advantage of couple's therapy is that each person is able to hear their partner talk out loud about themselves and their partner. Good luck in finding your relationship happiness!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-fianc-cheated-how-can-we-mend-our-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Am I going to be alone forever? I feel like I'm trying to convince myself that I'm okay when I'm not. I'm always blocking out the bad things and forgetting. I also feel like nobody cares for me and they never will. I feel truly alone.\nTherapist: When things are going badly, I feel like my life has always been and will always be that way. ( That is, I forget how good things can turn bad. Hang onto that hope because I\u2019m an example of things working out despite my previous way of looking at my life. and that\u2019s a thing to talk with a counselor about.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-going-to-be-alone-forever", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: I am fearful of social situations and avoiding people all together. This is preventing me from getting a job. I have bad relationship with my bipolar mother. I am living with her but it stresses me out so much to be around her that I have locked myself in my room. I have no friends or other family to help me. I have no money for therapy, but I think I need therapy before I can secure a job.\nTherapist: Overwhelming fear, social anxiety and depression are especially painful because they make behaving constructively a challenge. But there are also lots of examples of folks who have successfully worked their way through this. In addition to the suggestion to visit your doctor (who may prescribe a medication to help you relax), there are many social service agencies who provide free counseling or take medicaid. Think back on the things that you used to do that helped in the past, and force yourself to do these things again.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-fearful-of-social-situations-and-avoiding-people-all-together", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I hate talking to people much less strangers. My doctor thinks that seeing a psychiatrist will help with my depression and anxiety.  Now my anxiety is worse, what do I do?  Writing on here has taken every bit of strength I have left.\nTherapist: Did you take the medication the way the psychiatrist prescribed it? Did you follow up with her/him to report how it was going? It's not always the first one that helps. And some of the medications take some time to have an effect. I suggest you find a certified CBT therapist to help you examine your thinking. ~Mark (www.MarkMorrisLCSW.com and www.LivingYes.org)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-hate-talking-to-people-much-less-strangers", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: What is the proper procedure if your child's therapist is leaving the practice to work elsewhere? nan\nTherapist: They will either tell you how to continue with them in the new job or give you a referral. If that fails, ask the agency where your child sees the therapist about next steps. There's an agency director or equivalent who will probably be happy to help you. If that fails, and I hope it doesn't, consider finding a therapist on your own. ~Mark (www.MarkMorrisLCSW.com and www.LivingYes.org)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-proper-procedure-if-your-child-s-therapist-is-leaving-the-practice-to-work-elsewhere", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: My son and family has different views about religion. How do I resolve these differences? In particular during family gatherings (such as funerals), where there are different customs.\nTherapist: You have an opportunity, but you haven't described a problem. Many families have various members who have different spiritual beliefs and religious practices. If mutual decisions need to be made in religious contexts, you may also get to practice boundary setting, assertiveness (without aggression), communication skills, and loving kindness. Blessings to you all, ~Mark (www.MarkMorrisLCSW.com and www.LivingYes.org)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-son-and-family-has-different-views-about-religion-how-do-i-resolve-these-differences", "topics": "Spirituality,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible to get PTSD from being very depressed? I have manic depression and last summer was very very bad. I have recurring nightmares and I avoid anything that will give me a similar feeling as I did that summer.\nTherapist: A PTSD diagnosis requires an event which occurred at least 6 months prior to the symptoms. In the end, diagnoses are systems of behavioral labels. If you believe that one label (PTSD) is worse than another (Depression), you are creating a false hierarchy. You may also want to look at my book, Living Yes, for many ideas about challenging your thinking and improving you mood. ~Mark \u00a0(www.MarkMorrisLCSW.com and www.LivingYes.org)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-to-get-ptsd-from-being-very-depressed", "topics": "Trauma,Depression"}, {"text": "User: I feel really down all the time. I always feel like I'm not good enough and it literally is so hard living. I don't know how to talk to my parents about it.\nTherapist: This is a really hard problem for more teens (and adults) than let on. When I was about 15, I remember asking my parent's friend, Herman, whether life gets any easier when you get older. If you need someone to talk to, consider a teacher or a school guidance counselor or someone you respect, maybe in church. If you are serious about changing yourself, read about it \u00a0at www.LivingYes.org and pick up a copy there or on Amazon. ~Mark (www.MarkMorrisLCSW.com and www.LivingYes.org)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-really-down-all-the-time", "topics": "Depression,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Am I somehow stressing myself out? I think I'm annoying and bothersome, but my girlfriend says I'm just fine. I don't think so, I think I'm stressing everyone else out\nTherapist: I think you have identified something important here. It's not unusual to experience feelings that don't seem to match up with what your rational mind recognizes. In this case, it sounds like a part of you recognizes that the people around you do not find you \"annoying and bothersome.\" Despite knowing that people like you, it seems that there's still a part of you that feels like you're a bother. Finding a local counselor who can work with you to process those feelings might be just the help you need.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-somehow-stressing-myself-out", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Why am I dreaming so much? Sometimes 3 times a night.\nTherapist: As a depth therapist (aka \"psychodynamic practitioner\"), I do a lot of dream work with clients; and they gain great insights from our explorations. We remember dreams, I believe, because dreams are messages (always in code) from the unconscious, communicating the crux of unresolved conflict between who we are and who we think we are supposed to be. You might be remembering so many dreams because your conscious mind is ready to hear these messages...and make some internal changes in response.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-dreaming-so-much", "topics": "Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend says he needs time to think about us. I found out my boyfriend takes anti-depression medicine. Lately he's been saying he has a lot on his mind, and he needs time to think about us. We've only been dating 3 weeks but I like him a lot.\nTherapist: The first is what may have happened to prompt him to back off. The second is what it means to you to have a boyfriend who takes anti-depression medication who says he has \"a lot on his mind.\" Both give you opportunity to look at yourself. Is there any way that you can enjoy your time together without expecting anything down the road? Are there wonderful lessons for you to take from the relationship - even if it only lasts three weeks? ~Mark \u00a0(www.MarkMorrisLCSW.com and www.LivingYes.org)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-says-he-needs-time-to-think-about-us", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Am I going to be alone forever? I feel like I'm trying to convince myself that I'm okay when I'm not. I'm always blocking out the bad things and forgetting. I also feel like nobody cares for me and they never will. I feel truly alone.\nTherapist: I'm glad you're aware of how you honestly feel. Knowing one's personal truth is always the first step in finding what is necessary to be and develop. Reflect a little more on the type of care you'd like in your life. \"Care\" means anything from checking in on someone to deep, intimate connection between two people. Knowing your own definition of \"care\" is the first step to know what is necessary for you to recognize what you'd like attracting. It is much easier to attract what we'd like if we are clear on what this is.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-going-to-be-alone-forever", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Why am I dreaming so much? Sometimes 3 times a night.\nTherapist: Dreams are our chance to make sense of our waking lives. If you've got a lot going on in your life then your dreams are your assistants in understanding these happenings and dynamics.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-dreaming-so-much", "topics": "Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: My ex left without fully explaining but I feel broken and empty. About 5 months ago my ex left without fully explaining why. I don't miss her as much as I used to but I just don't trust people anymore, not even my friends who I have known since my childhood not even my family. I'm scared to because I don't want it to be taken away from me again. I feel like ever lesson I learn only last a day. I'm working at a place I know I should enjoy.\nTherapist: since you realize your sense of trust was broken, withdrawing from close relationships, makes sense. This may be your Self giving you natural time to recuperate from emotional pain. Also it is your chance to think over how to handle yourself differently in future relationships. Maybe this process requires more time than you'd like. Having patience is very difficult when a person feels hurt. A therapist of your own may be a good idea so you have someone for guidance and to chart your progress w you. This may feel less lonely and help you tolerate the waiting period till you're better", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-ex-left-without-fully-explaining-but-i-feel-broken-and-empty", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Am I somehow stressing myself out? I think I'm annoying and bothersome, but my girlfriend says I'm just fine. I don't think so, I think I'm stressing everyone else out\nTherapist: Interesting: \u00a0How much of your issue is your own self-judging and how much of your perception is real?There are many ways to stop judging and self-judging using Cognitive Theory (CBT). As to your own perception: \u00a0You seem okay being who you are, and your girlfriend agrees. That's a trap that stresses a lot of folks out. And consider this: \u00a0Many heroic characters in literature and movies are unlikeable. Your behaviors and thoughts are completely under your control. Enjoy who you are, and use your will power to make yourself who you want to be!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-somehow-stressing-myself-out", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Thoughts of afterlife causes anxiety. Sometimes I can't stop thinking about life after death. I was raised in a religion that teaches that we will live on forever either in hell or in heaven.  When I think of living forever (even if it is in heaven which should be good), I feel overwhelmed. I don't like the thought of living forever and ever and ever. Sometimes I just can't get the thought out of my mind and the thoughts lead to panic and anxiety.  Am I crazy? I don't think these thoughts are normal.\nTherapist: Many people generate intense anxiety with obsessive thinking. While the nature of your obsession about the afterlife and eternity appear very powerful and unique to you, the pattern of obsessing about one thing/area is common. I suggest that you consider counseling to help you with your anxiety. Obviously, I can't diagnose you from one paragraph, so it would be wise to visit an experienced mental health professional (either a counselor or an MD in your area) to help you with disengaging from your self-destructive thoughts. If you'd like a see a top notch CBT therapist, visit www.AcademyofCT.org.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/thoughts-of-afterlife-causes-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: My husband and I are separated. I'm so scared of getting divorced. I keep on begging him to come back. I am so unhappy with him but am so scared of being a single parent to our son. I was abused as a little girl and that has made to be very abusive to men. What should I do...\nTherapist: Don't be so afraid of your fear that you let yourself beg and are willing to accept unhappiness as a standard in your marriage. If you start considering that life can be better than what is current for you now, new possibilities and ideas will start developing in your mind. Consider finding a therapist so that you have private space to talk in detail about your fears and the new ways of seeing your Self. A therapy relationship, since it is safe and supportive, will be a good balance to having been abused, suffered, and unhappy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-and-i-are-separated-i-m-so-scared-of-getting-divorced", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Relationships,Domestic Violence"}, {"text": "User: I am bipolar and have been absolutely angry for over the last year at my daughter. She was raised by her abusive father and his wife. 30 years ago I shot and killed my rapist and was convicted in Louisiana. When I was released, she was 5 and didn't remember me. Many many sad memories came from my having to leave her visit after visit, having to leave her in Texas to travel back to Louisiana. Over the years, I thought we had developed a close mother daughter relationship. Now I'm not only feeling guilty for that but afraid of being evicted now.\nTherapist: Was either parent abusive or violent toward you?You sound to have suffered emotionally in your relationships since early in life. One point to consider is to strive for moderation in what you offer in relationships. A lot of what you've lived through is extreme, either as victim or perpetrator. If you imagine that apologizing to the custodian for the way spoke to him, would calm him down, do so. At the very least, you'll be actively resolving your guilt over cussing at him, and fear of his retaliation.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-bipolar-and-have-been-absolutely-angry-for-over-the-last-year-at-my-daughter", "topics": "Parenting,Substance Abuse,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: Why am I dreaming so much? Sometimes 3 times a night.\nTherapist: Perhaps more dreaming means that you are making use of your mind to solve problems. I find that change states, while sometimes difficult, are very exciting. They give you opportunity to grow more rapidly. ~Mark (www.MarkMorrisLCSW.com and www.LivingYes.org)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-dreaming-so-much", "topics": "Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: I hardly eat. But I gain weight instead of lose weight. Why? nan\nTherapist: First step always is to have a medical evaluation so you are aware of any physiological conditions which may explain an answer to your question. The extra calories become extra weight eventually. Also, it is possible that even with the most natural food choices, if there is a psychological reason for eating, such as stress or anxiety, then someone may not notice they are eating more food than their body needs. Sending good wishes on playing around with these ideas and finding an answer with which you're happy!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-hardly-eat-but-i-gain-weight-instead-of-lose-weight-why", "topics": "Eating Disorders"}, {"text": "User: I'm in a relationship with my fianc\u00e9 and I currently found out that she's been cheating on me with a co-worker. I understand what she did was wrong, but I want to spend the rest of my life with her. She forgave me for what I've done to her and since then I been completely faithful. I'm worried about our relationship and want to move forward  but its been very unsettling. All I can think about is her with another man. I don't know what to do or where to go for advice?\nTherapist: how to build trust and avoid betrayal by John Gottman is a great book for you both to start reading. You may also want to invest some time and energy in couples therapy. It sounds like there is a lack of trust in your relationship, likely a hangover from your beginnings, that would be helpful for you both to work through to truly be able to forgive and move forward.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-fianc-cheated-how-can-we-mend-our-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I need a man in my life? Why am I attracted to older men?\nTherapist: What a wonderful question!Good for you on clearly knowing your priorities. If I was sitting with you now, I'd ask you to list your reasons. If, for example, you feel you need a man because many of your friends are in relationships, then possibly you feel insecure about being your unique self, even when this sets you apart from your friends. If, you feel you need a man to protect you financially, then possibly you've lost faith in your ability to financially support yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-need-a-man-in-my-life", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend says he needs time to think about us. I found out my boyfriend takes anti-depression medicine. Lately he's been saying he has a lot on his mind, and he needs time to think about us. We've only been dating 3 weeks but I like him a lot.\nTherapist: Your boyfriend may like you a lot as well. People have different styles of reflecting on their lives, one of which is to retreat the way you describe your boyfriend doing. One point you can consider is asking for a time frame of when he'd be ready to discuss his thoughts on your relationship. He's entitled to retreat, as much as you're entitled to talk. Cooperating with the other person's way of handling themselves is one aspect of relating. Since the anti-depressants are a concern for you, consider bringing up this topic when the two of you do talk.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-says-he-needs-time-to-think-about-us", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My best friend says she loves me but is talking to a random guy. I have been with my best friend for over a year, and we have had a beautiful baby girl. We were in love, and I still love her dearly. I am in my late teens and so is she. She says she has lost her connection with me. She is talking to a random guy that she says is just someone to talk to. But she says she still loves me. I'm very hurt and confused.\nTherapist: Congrats on having your daughter!Have you told your partner about your feelings of \"hurt and confused\"?This is one possible way of opening a conversation about the different ways you each feel about one another and whether either of you would like changing or continuing to live together, in light of the change in emotional connection. The first step of having a dialogue about a relationship is being clear on what you are feeling, what you are willing to contribute to the relationship and what you would like having in return from your partner. If the conversations don't go very far, or if your partner has no interest in talking, stick with your own interest to more fully understand matters. Interview some therapists to find one whom you feel helps you clarify and find direction for yourself about this situation.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-best-friend-says-she-loves-me-but-is-talking-to-a-random-guy", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My companion tells me he wants nothing to do with me. Then turn right back around and say he loves me and needs me. This rollercoaster is crazy.\nTherapist: Yes, I agree with your view about the \"rollercoaster\" sounding \"crazy\"!Concentrate on knowing what your reasons are for staying with this guy, given the broad facts that you state. What are you gaining from being together and are these gains outweighing how you feel when your companion says the opposite of what he just told you?Also, examine yourself for any fears of being alone. It may, initially feel this way after a breakup. Eventually, stability and peace of mind return, and being alone with oneself is preferred to being taken on an emotional rollercoaster by a partner.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-companion-tells-me-he-wants-nothing-to-do-with-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What is the proper procedure if your child's therapist is leaving the practice to work elsewhere? nan\nTherapist: There may be differences in Sate laws, and differences based on the particular license of the therapist, on this question so try googling your question for your State. Generally, the therapist should have given you whatever the standard practice is for your State, notice in advance. Are you the parent who is legally responsible for this child?If not, then the therapist may have already communicated properly with whoever is the legal parent responsible for the child. Also, insurance corporations who have contracts with particular therapists, have their own timeline standards of expecting therapists to give proper notice in advance of leaving a practice.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-proper-procedure-if-your-child-s-therapist-is-leaving-the-practice-to-work-elsewhere", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: All I can do is cry and hate myself. I'm going through a majorly bad divorce and my wife is making things so impossible for me. I need help.\nTherapist: Crying due to a dissolution of a marriage, is normal. Hating yourself may be a sign of extreme sadness, feelings of loss and uncertainty. Discovering your reason is the first step in knowing the obstacles and then the additional steps possible, to move from \"hate\" to \"self-love\". Divorce signals a loss of familiar life structure and daily routines.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/all-i-can-do-is-cry-and-hate-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: I don't know where the lines should be drawn with my boyfriend's ex. I want us all to get along, but feel that I am not being respected. He wants to see his step daughter and ex makes it so he has to go there to see her, but she doesn't want me around. She has a boyfriend, but mine fixes their vehicles, goes over once a week and hangs out with the ex and does family things with her. She has tried to mess with holiday plans by restricting when he can see the child. He only dated once person before her, so this could be why.\nTherapist: How much of your unhappiness with your boyfriend's way of handling himself regarding his ex, have you told him?The topics that upset you are the core of any intimate relationship. The good news is your own awareness of priorities and expectations from a partner. There may not be any bad news, depending on whether your boyfriend has the interest to adjust what he does regarding the ex. A couples' therapist, whose focus is on the couple, not either of you as individuals, may be useful to you and your boyfriend so that you are able to complete your discussions without getting lost by the emotions raised.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-know-where-the-lines-should-be-drawn-with-my-boyfriend-s-ex", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My therapist betrayed my trust. My therapist is gay so there are no sexual issues here. However, my therapist for six years has made me believe that he cares about me and that we are friends. I have loaned money to him many times, and he always paid me back.  I had a medical emergency last weekend and I was heavily medicated. I knew that this therapist came into my home and wrote down my credit card information so he could pay back what he owed me, but this therapist dropped me off and never came again.  I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: Do you want this therapist to have your credit card information?If not, then cancel the credit cards that you believe may now be accessible to this therapist. Therapists are never \"friends\" with their patients. He has broken too many ethical standards to be worthy of offering therapy. The detective will advise according to the laws in your community and State, whether to file a police report, and what steps are necessary to utilize the Court system to get back your funds. If you'd like doing future patients who may be treated to similar ways by this therapist, a favor, go online and file a complaint with the therapist's Licensing Board.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-therapist-betrayed-my-trust", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: I found messages between my boyfriend and this girl on social media. I didn\u2019t find out about the messages until last month and that was six months after it happened. He admitted that he wanted to have sex with her but he didn't. He was only talking with her because he thought we were going to have a break up. I'm afraid that he doesn't like me anymore, but without me he's homeless and without a car. I thought I knew him as well as I knew myself. Then all of a sudden my world was flipped upside down.\nTherapist: I'm sorry for so much stress in your relationship life. In what ways does your boyfriend express his commitment and positive feelings about you, to you?From what you write, you feel more aggravation, stress, loneliness and insecurity, than satisfaction by being in this relationship. Does he care that you don't trust him?Very often people stay in relationships from fear of knowing who they really are. The feeling is of needing a partner in a way that is similar to how a fearful child needs staying nearby a parent.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-trust-my-boyfriend", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: In 2008 my former husband of 14 years walked away from my life and we've been separated ever since. We have always been together sexually and both have experienced sleeping with others. I stopped because I wanted my marriage to work out but he did not. If he stops sleeping with other women, can our marriage be saved? I still care deeply about him after all that I did and he has done. But he is seeing someone else on and off for years now.\nTherapist: Sorry to hear about the stress in your relationship. Also positive is your awareness that only your husband is the one who must similarly decide his own standards of being sexually exclusive to you, or not. Is sleeping with other women the only criterion of what will satisfy you about being together with your husband?Love and care are not enough to make a marriage work. Partners need to be able to compromise and cooperate with each other. That you care for him definitely intensifies any emotion you feel toward your husband. Decide how much emotional sadness and hurt you're willing to tolerate and the reason you're willing to do so.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-our-marriage-still-be-saved", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I was married to a narcissist sociopath for 10 years. During that time I was a general manager. I used to help him financially and in other ways when we were together. Currently, I'm working as a server which makes me believe less in myself. When I have money problems, he does not help me. He actually enjoys seeing me have a hard time in my life.\nTherapist: Congratulations on leaving your marriage!It is ok and natural to feel sadness, loss, uncertainty in direction, hurt, resulting from ending the marriage. Possibly what you consider \"pity\" is a combination of these feelings. Be kind and caring toward who you are since you just put yourself through a major separation and need time to clear out the old emotions that connected you to your ex. More likely any help he gave would be in order to manipulate you. You were a manager once, you can be a manager again when you feel ready for doing so.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-believe-in-myself-anymore", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How can someone like me be happy? I have been diagnosed with ADHD and experienced manic depression episodes.  I have problems with anger management.  Apparently, I also have an ODD, bipolar and split personality.  How can I be truly happy?\nTherapist: The ADHD and manic depressive episodes are terms other people told you that you have. A lot of mental health in our country is about telling people what's wrong with them and giving pills for these so called conditions, instead of helping a person know more about themselves in order to make good decisions. Others can slow you down because of the self-doubt and hurt feelings. Anger management only works temporarily because it is a surface approach. This will be better to know so you will be able to address it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-someone-like-me-be-happy", "topics": "Depression,Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: My therapist betrayed my trust. My therapist is gay so there are no sexual issues here. However, my therapist for six years has made me believe that he cares about me and that we are friends. I have loaned money to him many times, and he always paid me back.  I had a medical emergency last weekend and I was heavily medicated. I knew that this therapist came into my home and wrote down my credit card information so he could pay back what he owed me, but this therapist dropped me off and never came again.  I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: I'm sorry to hear that this has\u00a0happened. In addition, counselor ethical rules, and the laws in just about every state, make it illegal for counselors to take advantage of\u00a0a client financially. A counselor borrowing money from a client (even if the counselor\u00a0pays it back) would\u00a0usually be considered to be taking advantage of the client. There are a few options you have at this point if\u00a0you can't (or don't want) to continue to try to contact him directly. You can file a complaint with your states' regulatory board and let them\u00a0know what has happened.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-therapist-betrayed-my-trust", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: How will I check if there really is something wrong with me? I need to get help because I get an overwhelming feeling that he is cheating on me. Whenever I try to talk with him about it, he always turns it around on me by telling me what I'm doing wrong. Two weeks ago a girl texted his phone 3 times trying to hook up with him. He texted her back with \"Don't text me anymore.\" How will I go about checking if there really is something wrong with me?\nTherapist: Trust your intuition that your boyfriend is involved with other people. You gave examples which strongly suggest this. Quite commonly, a person twist someone's words to convince then of having problems in seeing or understanding their own and other's behavior. Your intuition is again working quite well in telling you that your problem is having a boyfriend who manipulates you, not that you're seeing things incorrectly. One way to check if you're totally misreading him, is to examine whether you feel similarly in other relationships. If no one else who knows you tells you that you're crazy, then this strongly points to your boyfriend twisting words so that you feel wrong.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-will-i-check-if-there-really-is-something-wrong-with-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Some adult family members are acting erratically in my house. I am having a problem with extended family members who are inappropriately urinating in my home. They are peeing in cat litter boxes, bottles, and directly on floors and in corners of my house. Is there any literature that supports why such adults would behave this way? This is not a joke. I am trying to understand.\nTherapist: Hi,\u00a0This sounds like a very challenging and upsetting problem - good for you for reaching out! My first thought is, these two adults may have a sleep disorder that could be contributing to the urination in inappropriate places. As far as what to do for yourself - set some firm boundaries. Be clear about the expectations of your home. Also include the positive and negative consequences should they decide to address or avoid this issue. I hope this helps you, your family members, and the pets!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/some-adult-family-members-are-acting-erratically-in-my-house", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I'm being emotionally abused by my dad. I need advice on how to hold my temper with him. nan\nTherapist: First, I'd like to say that I can't imagine what it must feel like to live in your shoes and have to be exposed to such treatment. Oftentimes, people don't recognize how serious this type of abuse can be. It's very important you first recognize that it is absolutely impossible for any of us to change a person. So the only thing you have control over is you - your response, your set boundaries, and your support system. There is only so much I can explain via writing so let me know if you need any additional help.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-being-emotionally-abused-by-my-dad-i-need-advice-on-how-to-hold-my-temper-with-him", "topics": "Family Conflict,Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: My husband is harsh towards our son and threatened me. Tonight, my husband seemed to put our son down through an incorrect approach. His approach was perfectly wrong. I found myself defending my son. I told him that what he did was not the way to encourage our son. Instead of watching my husband\u2019s harsh behavior I decided to sit beside my son and, together, we worked on his science assignment in order to encourage him to study. My husband got upset and he was swearing at me. He threatened me. I knew that he was not joking. His words scared me a lot!\nTherapist: I have had these many cases, but in situations like this.... If it does get out of hand, the police do need to be involved. Sit down and talk to your husband when he is calm and collective.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-is-harsh-towards-our-son-and-threatened-me", "topics": "Parenting,Anger Management,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I was duped into getting married to a therapist, but once her immigration status was secure, she bolted. How do I ever trust another woman? I have found myself constantly reading between the lines with every other woman that I meet. I am having a difficult time making any sort of connection to anyone because of her deception and willingness to say and do literally anything in order to control my emotions. Once the \"relationship\" was over, she became extremely abusive and has attempted to intimidate me into silence regarding the many false claims made on her immigration application.\nTherapist: I'm sorry to hear about being taken advantage of by your former wife. On the positive side, think of how much you learned by going through this very painful time. Maybe you are naturally very generous and caring, to the point of expecting very little from the other person, for example. There's a natural flow to what we're able to handle and when we have renewed capacity for new adventures. There's no reason to assume that you'll never trust another woman again. The first step is re-building trust in yourself to step into a new relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-was-duped-into-getting-married-to-a-therapist-but-once-her-immigration-status-was-secure-she-bolted", "topics": "Marriage,Family Conflict,Professional Ethics,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: Why is he treating me like I am not a good woman? When I asked for the TV remote control, he threw it elsewhere and asked me to get it. I slapped him and asked him to leave my room. Then he texts me and brags about his house and car knowing that I have struggles living at a hotel. I think that he is trying to find a way to come back.\nTherapist: I am less concerned about this man as bisexual and having gay friends, than about how you feel is treating you. You are in a vulnerable position because of social isolation. If you have friends to talk to, please reach out. While this man has money, it is not his job to take care of you financially unless the two of you have decided that together. But you are in control of removing him from you life or choosing not to because he meets some of your needs.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-is-he-treating-me-like-i-am-not-a-good-woman", "topics": "Relationships,Human Sexuality,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: My parents aren't letting my boyfriend and I talk or see each other while I'm pregnant. My parents don\u2019t want us to communicate with each other. I wish, though, that my boyfriend was next to me and be able to see his daughter on a sonogram, at the very least. My family does not understand that he deserves that much. Are they right for keeping him away from the appointments and not letting us communicate with each other even though we are the parents? When I ask my parents to let him be here, they call me a selfish person.\nTherapist: You're not wrong for wanting to be with your boyfriend of three years who is also the biological father of your child. Or, do they object only to electronic communication and don't want him involved in his child's life? Now is also a good time for you and your boyfriend to plan whether and where you will live as a family and how to financially and emotionally support one another once your baby is born. Your mom and dad are definitely making fatherhood difficult for your boyfriend and motherhood stressful for you. Consider bringing up the topic during your next obgyn visit. Your doctor may ask your mom to explain her reasons and address these.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-parents-aren-t-letting-my-boyfriend-and-i-talk-or-see-each-other-while-i-m-pregnant", "topics": "Relationships,Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I, a LPC, start an online practice? nan\nTherapist: This is a great question - especially since technology assisted counseling is definitely the current growing edge of the field. So it might take a little searching to find your state's rules. Other states do not have any specific laws or policies regarding online counseling at all.2) Next, it's a good idea to review the 2014 ACA code of ethics and the 2015 AMHCA code of ethics. This is really important since nearly every state considers counseling to occur in both the location of the client and the location of the counselor.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-a-lpc-start-an-online-practice", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: I'm going through dysphoria. I have always wanted to have a transition from male to female for some time now.  This issue has persisted for 10 years already but I don't know where to start.  I do not have the soundest information either.\nTherapist: I am writing from Toronto Canada so it is hard for me to direct you specifically. I would start with two things 1) Find a doctor that is comfortable perscribing hormones and 2) find a Counsellor or Therapist that is transgender specialized. They will know how transitioning works in your health care system and other supports as well. Google is a wonderful way to find these resources.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-going-through-dysphoria", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How do I go about asking my ex-girlfriend to expose me to her friends so I can come out finally? nan\nTherapist: I feel the need for a bit more information.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-go-about-asking-my-ex-girlfriend-to-expose-me-to-her-friends-so-i-can-come-out-finally", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How do I cure myself of being a transvestite? nan\nTherapist: I do not that thnk this is something that needs to be cured. If it a part of who you are, I feel that is great. if you simply enjoy wearing the clothes I would work on self acceptance.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cure-myself-of-being-a-transvestite", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I'm transgender. I want help and I need help. nan\nTherapist: Google to find a transgender specialized counsellor in your area. They can help you make good decisions and feel good about who you are.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-transgender-i-want-help-and-i-need-help", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I want to have sexual experiences with adults, male or female. How do I stop those thoughts?\nTherapist: The thoughts you are having are just thoughts. It is your choice whether you act on these thoughts. If you decide to explore having sex with adults of different genders that is great. If you find yourself obsessed with sexual thoughts,\u00a0you may want to see a cognitive-behavioural therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-have-sexual-experiences-with-adults-male-or-female", "topics": "LGBTQ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I determine if I should be a boy or girl? I feel like I would be more comfortable as a girl even though I still like girls. I think I'm like a girl stuck in a guy body. I imagine myself as a girl too. I think this more because my friends say that if I was a girl I would be a hot looking one. And I don't care about having boobs or anything. I just feel like the way that I do act will make more sense if I was a girl.\nTherapist: It is ok to be a boy and feel feminine and date women. It is also ok to be a transgendered women and date women.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-determine-if-i-should-be-a-boy-or-girl", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I've never been able to talk with my parents. My parents are in their sixties while I am a teenager. I love both of them but not their personalities. I feel that they do not take me seriously whenever I talk about a serious event in my life. If my dad doesn\u2019t believe me, then my mom goes along with my dad and acts like she doesn\u2019t believe me either. I know they have their own problems, which I do my best to help with. But they don't always try to help me with mine, when I really need them. I feel as if my childhood has been taken from me.\nTherapist: First of all, I am sorry that you have been missing out on your childhood. It may help you to know that many of us feel that we have missed out on our childhoods, as well, and that despite such deprivations, for many of us, our adult lives have been extraordinarily fulfilling due to our opening up to trusted adults. I recommend that you find a trustworthy adult to talk to. If none of these are available, try out a professional counselor, social worker, psychiatric nurse practitioner, psychologist, or a psychiatrist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-people-to-listen", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict,Depression,Stress,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm depressed because my wife is divorcing me and I haven't seen my child in a while. I'm going through a divorce with my wife of three years, who I've known since the 4th grade and been involved with for seven years! We just had a baby seven months ago and never got along with my mother, who I've lived with for years. I am now back with my mother because I have nowhere to go with this divorce looming.\nTherapist: It's hard to accept the end of a marriage when it's not your choice; you feel powerless, abandoned and unwanted. Your wife has the right to decide not to be in a marriage with you, and a therapist can help you accept and move through this change that has broken your heart and left you lost. Therapists don't intervene in these ways. The marriage may be ending, but your role as a loving father is only beginning. You can focus on giving your child the gift of two parents who respect each other.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-depressed-because-my-wife-is-divorcing-me-and-i-haven-t-seen-my-child-in-a-while", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with the anger problems I've gained from my soon-to-be husband? I been having anger problems a lot lately. It only takes one word wrongly said to set me off. I use to not be like this until I got with my soon-to-be husband. I think his mood and rage/anger problems have rubbed off on me a lot. I don't get nearly as bad as he does, but I yell almost constantly and I can't seem to just stop. I have two young babies that have to hear this, and I don't want my girls growing up with a mommy like I have been lately.\nTherapist: My gut says that your own rage is being triggered partly because you feel trapped or shutdown by your fiance's moody/angry/rage responses and powerless to stop it. You can start by accepting that this is who he is and you won't change him. You can only change your own behaviours, and I see you taking responsibility for those, which is great. I urge you to see a therapist so you can understand your own emotions and sort out the choices you have to make, knowing that your fiance has to make his own choices about his behaviours.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-the-anger-problems-i-ve-gained-from-my-soon-to-be-husband", "topics": "Anger Management,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with separation anxiety while boyfriend is out of town? I have been with my boyfriend for more than a year. He recently got a new job and travels a lot. I\u2019m not used to him being gone all the time. I feel as though he has forgotten about me because he does not talk with me as much and doesn\u2019t keep me up to date on everything that he does throughout the day, which he used to. I don\u2019t know why he is acting this way lately.\nTherapist: In a way, yes, you have separation anxiety. He may think he's loving you more, but you feel loved less. It sounds like \"It's normal to be insecure, but I have tons of evidence that he loves me and that I mean the world to him...\" Find that evidence that helps you refute what anxiety is trying to claim. The second part of your job is to let him know what you need. You need more affection and connection during this period when he's away (more texts, phone calls, information).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-separation-anxiety-while-boyfriend-is-out-of-town", "topics": "Anxiety,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why do I get random spurts of anger over petty things? I get random spurts of anger, like complete, pure rage. I figured it was hormones, but others notice it too. Now when I get mad, I bite my arms and fingers, pull my hair, scratch my face, or punch my thighs. I have a great family, a great relationship with my boyfriend, and a good job. I have no idea what this is and I don't know how to control it.\nTherapist: In general, when a small thing bothers us (and this happens to all of us), it's because the small thing triggers an emotion in us that we have felt \"too much\" or \"too intensely\" in the past, and we don't know how to manage that emotion effectively...we just want to avoid it as quickly as possible. Cognitive Behavioural Therapy with a qualified therapist can help you to understand what is being triggered in you and learn how to manage emotions productively. You say that your behaviours are self destructive, and I agree. Again, a good therapist can help you learn what's behind your shame and self-harm.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-get-random-spurts-of-anger-over-petty-things", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: My husband wants a divorce after I was diagnosed with severe depression. He said he would try and he never did. It's been nine months, and this is making me worse. Today, he said I have to respect whatever decision he makes. Is that true? Am I supposed to respect the decision to leave because he can't handle what I'm going through and leaves me here crying and worried every night? He's constantly changing his mind on if he wants to work it out.\nTherapist: I'm sorry for the hurt you're feeling from your husband's decision. Imagine being in a relationship that you'd rather leave. I'm glad you realize that you feel depressed. Depression is a mood that can change once you understand what is causing it. Your husband's indecision may very well be adding to your stress. From what you write, your husband is too unsure to offer you the love and care you'd like from him. At this stage in your marriage, now sounds like an ideal opportunity for you to teach yourself self-love.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-wants-a-divorce-after-i-was-diagnosed-with-severe-depression", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My daughter-in-law is smoking marijuana while pregnant. My new daughter-in-law just informed me that she is smoking marijuana while pregnant because of her morning sickness. I\u2019m in shock and I don\u2019t know how to respond. I just lost my mom, and she was good with advice.\nTherapist: Have you reached your own conclusions and reasons for these, regarding the topic? When you feel confident in your own reasons for your conclusions, then obviously ask your daughter in law for some time together and tell her what you think and your reasons for opinions. Plan for this meeting according to the type of relationship you have with your daughter in law. Also, during your discussion, find out the exact ways the morning sickness affects your daughter in law. Maybe you and other family members can lighten her daily routines so she has more time for herself to manage her morning sickness in a less risky way.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-daughter-in-law-is-smoking-marijuana-while-pregnant", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: What are the general prognosis for ultradian cycling bipolar to mix with coexisting mild borderline personality disorder, anxiety, PTSD. Current medications are: topamax, ativan, brintellix, lamictal, restoril, abilify, tx: long term dbt, cbt\nTherapist: The general prognosis for anyone is good, so long as they have faith in their own ability to find the goodness in life. The list of drugs you write sounds too long for anyone to reasonably need. My best suggestion is to find a therapist who does talk therapy, not drug therapy. Taking a lot of drugs creates self-doubt and weakens the sense of self that people naturally have. My wish for your future is to regain trust and confidence in yourself as a person, not a diagnosis who is told to take a lot of pills.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-are-the-general-prognosis-for-ultradian-cycling-bipolar-to-mix-with-coexisting-mild-borderline-personality-disorder-anxiety-ptsd", "topics": NaN}, {"text": "User: My husband wants a divorce after I was diagnosed with severe depression. He said he would try and he never did. It's been nine months, and this is making me worse. Today, he said I have to respect whatever decision he makes. Is that true? Am I supposed to respect the decision to leave because he can't handle what I'm going through and leaves me here crying and worried every night? He's constantly changing his mind on if he wants to work it out.\nTherapist: There is nothing worse than fearing abandonment when you are already struggling with depression. It sounds like you are still wanting to work through whatever challenges you and your husband are having but your husband may not be on the same page. I would encourage you and your husband to seek professional support if you haven't already. With that being said - if your husband is not willing to do therapy or is clear that he wants the relationship to end, then I can't see what choice you have but to \"respect his decision\" as you mentioned. You do not need to face depression alone - nor should you have to.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-wants-a-divorce-after-i-was-diagnosed-with-severe-depression", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I fight inner loneliness from depression and a severe anxiety disorder? I've been hospitalized twice. Once was last month for psychiatric help. I'm on medicine, but I'm struggling with fighting the negative thoughts, irrational fears, and loneliness. The people around me aren't helping much.\nTherapist: If you are someone who usually has a job, pays or contributes to household bills, and generally manages your own daily life, then here are some suggestions. Start with small changes in your life so that you will feel successful in developing little areas of personal happiness. Since the people whom you currently are in your life \"aren't helping much\", consider branching out your life so that you are with those with whom you do feel help you. If you like reading, look online for a local book club. Social isolation increases the intensity of negative feelings. Also, the way healthcare is set up in the US, psychiatrists spend 15 minutes asking a person questions and then giving them a pill script.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-fight-inner-loneliness-from-depression-and-a-severe-anxiety-disorder", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I become less anxious in conversations? I find myself being very outgoing most of the time, but there are some times when I don't know what to say. I don't even want to talk at all. It's like, I search for the right thing to say and nothing ever comes out. I don't know if I'm outgoing only to fill the void of not knowing what to say. I don\u2019t know if people like that about me. I'm very self-conscious and always think people are talking about me, so it makes me have a cold shoulder and not want to talk.\nTherapist: Would you feel more secure in conversations if instead of talking soon after meeting someone or entering a social situation, you simply listened attentively to the other people?This way you'd have a more secure idea of what topics the group likes talking about and whether you like talking about these topics as well. Maybe you simply are in groups or situations in which you don't care for the people or focus. Start by trusting your own evaluation of your true interest in being among the groups in which you are. Maybe you simply need new and different groups.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-become-less-anxious-in-conversations", "topics": "Anxiety,Social Relationships,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: My parents are getting a divorce and I feel depressed. I am going through a very hard time and I'm so depressed. My parents are getting a divorce and a lot of bad things are happening. I want to lull myself.\nTherapist: Consider yourself quite normal for feeling overwhelmed and depressed about your parents divorce. It is necessary for you to know about your basic future. If you are living on your own and the main problem is your inner adjustment that your family structure is completely changing, then probably a good therapist would be a great help to you now, to clarify these tensions. Sending lots of good wishes for an easy resolution to your new path!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-parents-are-getting-a-divorce-and-i-feel-depressed", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Could a rape that happened years ago be the cause of my anxiety? I was raped repeatedly when I was younger. I told my parents and action was taken, but now that I\u2019m an adult, I suffer from extreme anxiety.\nTherapist: It's not unusual for traumatic experiences that happened when we were younger to stay with us when we get older. Traumatic experiences can become embedded in our bodies, as well as in our emotions. If the issue doesn't get a chance to get resolved within, then external action doesn't necessarily take care of the problem. Seek out a qualified trauma therapist so you can start to deal with the issues you're grappling with.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/could-a-rape-that-happened-years-ago-be-the-cause-of-my-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my toddler with toilet training when he gags every time he sees his poop? My toddler is having a real hard time with toilet training. He almost throws up every time he sees his poop. When he sits on the toilet, he just sits there forever and only will pee. He holds the poop in until he get up and then will poop in his diaper. How can I help him get over this fear and passed the stress?\nTherapist: Your son is showing signs that he's just not ready to be toilet trained. You don't say how old he is, so I'm not sure whether the problem is deeper, but right his fears may reflect that right now he is simply be not ready to take that step. Pushing him at this point could worsen the problem, so I suggest pulling back the expectations, waiting a month or two, looking for more signs of readiness and trying again. In general, teaching children to use the toilet works best when \"mistakes\" are handled calmly and when parents pay close attention to cues that the child is responding positively.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-toddler-with-toilet-training-when-he-gags-every-time-he-sees-his-poop", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Could a rape that happened years ago be the cause of my anxiety? I was raped repeatedly when I was younger. I told my parents and action was taken, but now that I\u2019m an adult, I suffer from extreme anxiety.\nTherapist: Even though (thankfully) your parents responded well to you telling them, and you received treatment, it's possible, and very normal for sexual abuse trauma to affect you in different ways as you age and develop. Please see a therapist, who can help you find the root of the anxiety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/could-a-rape-that-happened-years-ago-be-the-cause-of-my-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my sex drive back after my rape? I was raped by multiple men, and now I can't stand the sight of myself. I wear lingerie to get my self excited enough to have sex with my wife.\nTherapist: I'm sorry for your being taken advantage of and for all the negative feelings created by being exploited. If you have not already explained to your wife about what caused your great distress, then please consider doing this. A conversation that happens in a safe relationship, will give her a chance of being supportive to you. And, the discussion may relieve some of the bad feelings toward yourself which you currently feel. In its most positive light, you and your wife can build a new sex life based on the loving foundation you develop from talking with one another in this deeper way.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-sex-drive-back-after-my-rape", "topics": "Self-esteem,Marriage,Trauma,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop feeling sad at my mother's passing over a year ago? nan\nTherapist: Feeling sad to lose someone who mattered very much to you, is normal. Even crying on occasions you recall specific times with her, or on holidays and birthdays, is normal. The only reason to be concerned about your sadness regarding your mother's passing, is if you are so sad that the sadness stops you from doing other activities in your life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-feeling-sad-at-my-mother-s-passing-over-a-year-ago", "topics": "Depression,Grief and Loss"}, {"text": "User: My husband seems to end his relationships with women whenever he has an infant. My husband and I would've been married for five years come June 2016. Our infant daughter just had her birthday. He has four other children, three of which are from his first wife. He decided to end that marriage when his youngest was an infant. He easily detaches from relationships at the same time in the child's life but wants a relationship with them when they are older. He also has an unhealthy dependency on alcohol and does not believe in mental health disorders such as depression and bi-polar disorder. Is there a detachment disorder or some form of mental block he could have?\nTherapist: This sounds really difficult and I can understand your motivation to get to bottom of why this behaviour has occurred - especially if your husband (who sounds like he is an ex-husband?) continues to have a relationship with you and your children. With that being said - relationships and mental health are very complicated and you are unlikely to find the answers you are looking for.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-seems-to-end-his-relationships-with-women-whenever-he-has-an-infant", "topics": "Marriage,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: Could a rape that happened years ago be the cause of my anxiety? I was raped repeatedly when I was younger. I told my parents and action was taken, but now that I\u2019m an adult, I suffer from extreme anxiety.\nTherapist: While anxiety can come about for many reasons, trauma is definitely one of the factors that makes anxiety a possibility both immediately following a traumatic event and later in life. When we have experienced such scary violations of our bodies - we may experience residual effects of fear for many years to come. This is normal, natural and in many ways helpful - at least initially. This fear is in some way a sign that your body/mind is taking good care of you - trying to keep you on your toes in order to protect you from anything terrible happening to you again.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/could-a-rape-that-happened-years-ago-be-the-cause-of-my-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Is it wrong that I don't love or even like my sister? I would never wish her harm, but if I could, I would wish for us not to be related. Why must blood mean we have to be friends? Am I being unreasonable and is there a way to fix this? I do care about her, like I do every human being, but I\u2019d rather be with my friends than be with her at all.\nTherapist: Not liking someone is not cruel - even if it is a family member. There is nothing wrong with you for not liking your sister. Some people are fortunate to have siblings that they get along with really well, other don't. We all have different personalities and we are not going to like everyone - even if they are related. In fact, sometimes being related makes it harder because you know all of each other's flaws and imperfections.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-wrong-that-i-don-t-love-or-even-like-my-sister", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Thoughts of afterlife causes anxiety. Sometimes I can't stop thinking about life after death. I was raised in a religion that teaches that we will live on forever either in hell or in heaven.  When I think of living forever (even if it is in heaven which should be good), I feel overwhelmed. I don't like the thought of living forever and ever and ever. Sometimes I just can't get the thought out of my mind and the thoughts lead to panic and anxiety.  Am I crazy? I don't think these thoughts are normal.\nTherapist: You might be surprised how normal you are. It is the ultimate unknown and some philosophers and psychologists believe that at the root of our day-to-day anxieties is the fear of death or fear of the unknown. Just as it can be really hard to comprehend the ending of life it can also be hard to comprehend an eternal existence. There are lots of good therapists out there who can help you with your anxiety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/thoughts-of-afterlife-causes-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my sex drive back after my rape? I was raped by multiple men, and now I can't stand the sight of myself. I wear lingerie to get my self excited enough to have sex with my wife.\nTherapist: I am very sorry to hear about your rapes. Traumatic events, such as rape, can have some lasting effects. Issues with sex drive are one of these effects. Therapy can help to decrease the impact that traumatic events have upon our lives as we process through some of our experiences. EMDR can be a particularly effective modality of treatment to address this issues. I would also encourage you to have an honest conversation with your wife about this concern.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-sex-drive-back-after-my-rape", "topics": "Self-esteem,Marriage,Trauma,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my sex drive back after my rape? I was raped by multiple men, and now I can't stand the sight of myself. I wear lingerie to get my self excited enough to have sex with my wife.\nTherapist: Hello Utah, thank you for writing with your question. Sexual assault or sexual abuse is a very traumatic event that affects victims in many ways. A good therapist can help you to process your traumas and understand that you did nothing wrong to cause the rapes; the shame is not yours. It takes a very patient and loving partner, but you can make progress towards a healthier sexual relationship with your wife. These are issues that I cannot address more fully here other than to recommend that you seek the assistance of a qualified professional.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-sex-drive-back-after-my-rape", "topics": "Self-esteem,Marriage,Trauma,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend thinks he's perfect and puts his friends before me. My boyfriend\u2019s sneaky and puts his friends before me. He fights just to leave. One day, he's happy. The next, he's mean and blames me for everything. He can't admit faults. He thinks he's perfect and does no wrong.\nTherapist: You have a long list of complaints about your boyfriend! I would also ask a lot of questions about the details of your description. Also, are you wanting to make things better with him, do you just want an ear to vent to, are you looking for validation, or do you hope someone will help you wake up to an unhappy situation? Try to focus on his actual behaviour when you talk to him about this stuff.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-thinks-he-s-perfect-and-puts-his-friends-before-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it wrong that I don't love or even like my sister? I would never wish her harm, but if I could, I would wish for us not to be related. Why must blood mean we have to be friends? Am I being unreasonable and is there a way to fix this? I do care about her, like I do every human being, but I\u2019d rather be with my friends than be with her at all.\nTherapist: My guess is there's a lot of deep history here that I don't know about. If you were mean to her, that might be a different thing. How you respond here is up to you; there are no rules. You get to decide how much 'family' means to you and how much time you spend with friends or family. Cutting all ties with a sister now (you haven't said you want that though) might mean she won't want to be there for you in the future when you need her. Also, how you treat your sister affects your other family members as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-wrong-that-i-don-t-love-or-even-like-my-sister", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible to get my ex-boyfriend help, forcibly? My ex-boyfriend, will not stop harassing and stalking me. We work together. I honestly think he needs help to move on. His accusations are angry lies. But I think he may believe them to be true.\nTherapist: The specific laws about this will vary from state to state. Generally, the only way to \"force\" someone to get mental health care is if they pose an imminent theft of harm to themself or someone else, or if they are unable to care for themself. More importantly, is dealing with your safety. Most states have laws that make stalking a crime. You might want to think about filing a police report and obtaining a restraining order against him. You could also think about contacting a local counselor.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-to-get-my-ex-boyfriend-help-forcibly", "topics": "Relationships,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: Should I get back together with my ex-boyfriend who has trust issues? My ex-boyfriend and I met over a year ago. We hit it off and fell in love pretty quick. However, he has trust issues and assumed I was cheating. When I found out I was pregnant, we had just broken up. Five months later, I lost the baby, and we did not speak for a few weeks. I just want to know where to go with this because I love him so much, and I want to get back to us being happy and a family.\nTherapist: I'm truly sorry to hear that your relationship is causing you such distress at this time. Often, when we feel we are required to prove ourselves, feelings of resentment can replace those feelings of wanting to be supportive. Your fears about his response are valid, as he made an assumption which you cannot disprove because you cannot battle against a shadow fact. In the end, these are issues that you cannot conquer for him - you can only guide him and show him the path towards trust. You may suggest couples counselling or that he seek out a professional to talk to, as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-get-back-together-with-my-ex-boyfriend-who-has-trust-issues", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Should I get back together with my ex-boyfriend who has trust issues? My ex-boyfriend and I met over a year ago. We hit it off and fell in love pretty quick. However, he has trust issues and assumed I was cheating. When I found out I was pregnant, we had just broken up. Five months later, I lost the baby, and we did not speak for a few weeks. I just want to know where to go with this because I love him so much, and I want to get back to us being happy and a family.\nTherapist: Trust is essential in romantic relationships and it is common to have trust issues - because the stakes are so high. If both of you are committed and willing to be fully honest with each other, trust can be repaired and become stronger than ever. When fear takes over - we tend to become defensive and act in ways that makes it harder to trust one another. In addition to getting professional support I would encourage you to learn more about building trust in relationships and deepening connection through accessing various online resources on relationships.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-get-back-together-with-my-ex-boyfriend-who-has-trust-issues", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why does my mom show more love to my brothers than me? She treats me like I'm not in her presence. She\u2019s always yelling at me for no reason. She gives more respect to my brothers than me, but only my brothers fight her while I respect her.\nTherapist: Attention is not equal to love and being valued. It may be precisely because your brothers demand so much more your mom's attention through fighting with her that she pays more attention to them. It is a common situation in families where the \"squeaky wheel gets the grease\" and the siblings or family members who don't demand as much attention end up feeling invisible. It sucks to feel invisible and it is important that there is attention for you and that you know how much your mom loves and values you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-does-my-mom-show-more-love-to-my-brothers-than-me", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I'm older and just experienced heartbreak. After 25 years, I fell in love for the first time. The person acted for a week and left me without even saying goodbye. My heart is burning, and I can't take this pain.\nTherapist: We all long to be loved and to love and to have that experience and then lose it is awful. While it is easy to feel angry or start doubting yourself under these circumstances, I would encourage you to recognize the agony of what you are experiencing as an indication of how much you value loving relationships and how much you want to make this happen in your life. While no one is going to be able to make it better, we don't have to be alone with our pain.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-older-and-just-experienced-heartbreak", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Am I going to be alone forever? I feel like I'm trying to convince myself that I'm okay when I'm not. I'm always blocking out the bad things and forgetting. I also feel like nobody cares for me and they never will. I feel truly alone.\nTherapist: As social creatures, we humans all long for deep human connection. It is so important to us that when we feel alone - it can feel almost unbearable. While it can take time to build deep relationships there are moments in each day where we have the opportunity to interact with other people who may also feel lonely and scared and want to be seen and acknowledged. I wonder what it might be like for you if you took on an experiment of trying to really see the people around you and make little attempts to acknowledge and connect with them - fellow humans on this journey of life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-going-to-be-alone-forever", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Is it okay for my girlfriend to have sex with other men since I can\u2019t sexually perform? I am currently suffering from erectile dysfunction and have tried Viagra, Cialis, etc.  Nothing seemed to work.  My girlfriend of 3 years is very sexually frustrated.  I told her that it is okay for her to have sex with other men.  Is that really okay?\nTherapist: Hi,\u00a0First and foremost, I want to acknowledge your efforts to gain (your) ideal erectile function. Are you OK with her sleeping with others? Have you thought through what this may look like, feel like, become for you and her? Even then, the answer may change at any point by either of you. Be clear with the intention and then together have continuous conversations about the expectations of opening up (i.e.: are there any kinds of sex that is off limits, areas of the body where touch or intimacy is not allowed, are uses of safer sex required or not, do you want to know the details or not, so forth).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-okay-for-my-girlfriend-to-have-sex-with-other-men-since-i-can-t-sexually-perform", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My ex-boyfriend wouldn't let me have my daughter because I didn't know my stepdaughter's pick-up details. I want to get along as much as possible, and he agreed. However, we just had an incident where my ex-boyfriend started discussing drop-off details about my stepdaughter. I told him that he needed to ask my husband because I can't make decisions about my stepdaughter regarding the matter. I told him all my concern is when I pick up my daughter. I especially told him I didn't want to be involved.\nTherapist: I appreciate your mature instincts and strong efforts to draw clear boundaries in this very complex situation. Children need adults around them to act maturely, cooperatively and peacefully even when they don't like each other; it helps them feel secure and lets them focus on learning and growing. I also appreciate how protective you are of yourself at this vulnerable time with the pregnancy. If you two are on the same page regarding the children issues and your ex, that will help. You're correct that he will always be there, and you can both accept this fact and also find ways to manage the situation. It's okay to ignore his efforts to pull you into an argument or power struggle.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-ex-boyfriend-wouldn-t-let-me-have-my-daughter-because-i-didn-t-know-my-stepdaughter-s-pick-up-details", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I'm older and just experienced heartbreak. After 25 years, I fell in love for the first time. The person acted for a week and left me without even saying goodbye. My heart is burning, and I can't take this pain.\nTherapist: I'm sad that this was your first experience (in 25 years) with feeling in love. social cultural norms is that it is somehow acceptable to abruptly stop communicating with someone you've been seeing, without explanation. You're better off without this person around. It takes years to get to know someone deeply. If I was your therapist, I'd be curious about how this is the first time you've fallen in love? What has kept you from either meeting people or letting yourself fall in love until now?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-older-and-just-experienced-heartbreak", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm with someone, but I have unresolved feelings for my ex-boyfriend. I'm now in my 20s, and my current boyfriend is amazing and in his 30s. We've never really fought and are able to make compromises and talk everything out. They're supposed to move in together soon. I want to just talk it out with my ex-boyfriend, but I don't know if that's a good idea because of the possibility that it could blow up in my face. If he told his girlfriend, everything could go wrong because she hates me.\nTherapist: If you're in a relationship and you're having strong thoughts about someone else, it's important to pay attention to that. Although you say you're happy, I'd suggest looking really carefully at the relationship you have and whether you're getting everything you need. That's a pretty important element to be missing. It may be that, even if you are happy with your current boyfriend, you still hold something special for your ex. The grass isn't greener... A therapist can help you to focus your energies and thoughts on the present, rather than an imagined version of the past or future.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-with-someone-but-i-have-unresolved-feelings-for-my-ex-boyfriend", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My husband and I can\u2019t talk to each other without arguing. Every time I speak, he says I anger him. Also, when he\u2019s mad at something, like work, he gets angry at me. I feel like we\u2019re so distant from each other now. We used to laugh all the time, and I feel like he lets too much negativity in. What should I do? We've been married for two years but together for seven.\nTherapist: It sounds to me like your husband is going through something, and I think you understand that. You might feel very helpless, sad, and disrespected at the same time. Are you respecting yourself here by drawing appropriate boundaries? You can let him know when you feel disrespected, and what's not okay with you. He may be experiencing depression, which often shows up as irritability in men. You can try a \"I'm really worried about you. You don't seem happy and I don't know how to help you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-and-i-can-t-talk-to-each-other-without-arguing", "topics": "Marriage,Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my kids get along? For the last year, my adolescent son and daughter have been driving me nuts with fighting. I'm at my wits end. How can I get them to stop and get along?\nTherapist: Unfortunately there is no generic answer with this one. Kids fight for different reasons - wanting attention, wanting respect, feeling jealous, wanting space and to be left alone, or a whole bunch of other reasons. The more they are able to understand each other and feel understood the more likely they will be cooperative and considerate of each other. One exercise for doing this that can be very helpful is \"active listening\" where one person speaks and the other person reflects back what they heard the other person say and then checks for understanding.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-kids-get-along", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I lie to my mom about my relationship. I use to be so happy. No matter what, I always was happy. I got into a relationship with this guy. I love him so much. We\u2019re both teenagers. The week after his birthday, my mom made me stop talking to him. It broke me. He came to my house and talked to her, and she let us date again but not see each other. He comes up to my school every day and it tears me apart that I have to lie to her.\nTherapist: I understand that this can be difficult when you care about someone. Have you had a discussion with your mom as to why she does not want you and this boy to see each other, and what her concerns are? It is understandable that you do not to feel comfortable having \u00a0to lie to your mom. Have either one of you been in family therapy? This may be something you may want to suggest to your mom to help you both understand where each one is coming from.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-lie-to-my-mom-about-my-relationship", "topics": "Relationships,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My husband seems to be changing, and I feel angry and hurt. My husband took a job out of state for the next year and seems to be a different person. Before, he worked and slept, and on off days, he'd stay home because he didn't want to do anything else. Now he's going out with friends several nights a week while I'm still home working a 50 hours a week job and taking care of two kids by myself.\nTherapist: It seems that you have been very disconnected from each other which naturally \u00a0could contribute to symptoms of saddness and even depression. Obviously something has shifted which you do not understand. Therefore, \u00a0perhaps you should consider attending Couples therapy to help work through your concerns and feelings? It would also be beneficial to assess if in fact any depression or other underlying issue is going on. Communication is so important in any relationship and the manner in which we express ourselves to our partner can either invite curiosity and emotional connection, or shut down connection.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-seems-to-be-changing-and-i-feel-angry-and-hurt", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal for a pregnant woman to cry over everything? I find myself crying over every little thing, like dropping a glass of water. Today, I got out of the shower and noticed that I had forgotten a shirt. I instantly started to cry. When I made it to my room, I began to shake a little, cry more, and I begged for it to stop.\nTherapist: It is very typical for pregnant moms to feel completely emotionally and extremely teary eyed, so not to worry. Biologically speaking, your body generates an influx of hormones, that affects you neurotransmitters (chemical messages to the brain) that takes you on an emotional rollercoaster, but that's a good thing for the baby. Everyone reponds differently to these changes in mood, ranging from being\u00a0anxious to being depressed. However it is mostly heightened in the first and third trimester. Embrace the emotions that go along with pregnancy and know that it is within the norm.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-for-a-pregnant-woman-to-cry-over-everything", "topics": NaN}, {"text": "User: What can I do to keep my relationship as good as it could be? My long-distance girlfriend is in a sorority, and it's changing her. I feel like I'm becoming less important to her and it hurts. She just wants me to support the sorority, but it's so hard. I try every day to show her she's the most important thing to me, but she can't even stay relatively sober at a fraternity party for me so that I won't worry about her doing anything regretful. We love each other, but we're in a rough patch.\nTherapist: You may already be doing as much as possible for your relationship. This way, each of you will be able to know if you have similar values and definitions of your reasons for being together. Depending on what you each expect from your partnership, you each will clearly know whether, and then how, to accommodate the other person. These discussions stir a lot of emotions in each person, so that sometimes staying clear minded becomes very difficult. You both will likely feel like talking about these matters more than one time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-to-keep-my-relationship-as-good-as-it-could-be", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My husband works all the time and neglects his family. My husband always works. He does work from home, but his hours are from morning until night, and he neglects his family. If I have anything I want to do, I have to find a babysitter, but he does what he wants. He rarely comes to bed when I do, and we never have date nights.\nTherapist: I'm glad you're aware to expect more satisfaction from being part of a couple, than you currently describe yourself as having. Often, people are fearful of harsh criticism by the partner and worry that by simply stating the reasons for feeling unhappy, will mean hearing judgments against them, spoken by the partner. It is always a good idea to utilize the services of a professional, credentialed and licensed therapist, if after trying to start a conversation on the topics you bring up here, does not go well or very far. For all of us, the emotions in our intimate relationships are deep and powerful. Sending lots of good wishes for future happiness!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-works-all-the-time-and-neglects-his-family", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I always feel the need to tell people everything. Whenever I don't tell my friends or anyone what I did or stuff that's not really important, I feel terrible, like there\u2019s a hole in my stomach. It only goes away when I hurt myself.\nTherapist: Possibly you are overlooking that your own Self is someone worth talking to as well. None of us are ever really alone because we are always with ourselves. Self-talk is a major part of what guides our decisions and how we make sense of relationships and situations. Even after telling people the stories or activities, hearing their comments, it is always within ourselves that we decide if the way we were received by these others, the comments we heard back, feel right and accurate to our lives. I am guessing that hurting yourself makes the stomach hole feel less bad because the physical pain you create in yourself distracts you from feeling it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-always-feel-the-need-to-tell-people-everything", "topics": "Anxiety,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: My husband works all the time and neglects his family. My husband always works. He does work from home, but his hours are from morning until night, and he neglects his family. If I have anything I want to do, I have to find a babysitter, but he does what he wants. He rarely comes to bed when I do, and we never have date nights.\nTherapist: Hi Ohio, The crazy things about situations like this is that, almost guaranteed, while your husband is out working and away from home, he feels he's doing it all for you and the kids; he believes he's loving you. He might feel like he's carrying his family on his shoulders. Your 'love language' is different...you'd rather spend time with him or talk to him...you want to feel like he's a bigger part of the family and feel connected to him. He has needs too; he probably wants more appreciation and less blame. Right now you WANT to spend time with him and that tells me that you have a good chance of addressing this problem successfully.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-works-all-the-time-and-neglects-his-family", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I always feel the need to tell people everything. Whenever I don't tell my friends or anyone what I did or stuff that's not really important, I feel terrible, like there\u2019s a hole in my stomach. It only goes away when I hurt myself.\nTherapist: Hi Kansas, I feel strongly that the help of a professional therapist is important here. Feelings are never wrong, but it can help to understand where they come from and talk to someone who can teach you healthy ways to cope. Self-harm is not the answer to managing those emotions you feel in your stomach. Although I'm glad you said something here, a professional would need to spend some time with you and get a deep understanding of your life in order to help you sort all these reactions out effectively.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-always-feel-the-need-to-tell-people-everything", "topics": "Anxiety,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Can a mental breakdown last 10-15 minutes? nan\nTherapist: I'm not quite sure what you're asking, because you don't define 'breakdown'. We all fall apart in little ways, and then we get to put ourselves back together however we want. Feelings come and go, and they pass through us more quickly if we have coping skills and healthy thought processes. If you're concerned about some intense periods of despair or you feel like you don't have those coping skills, a bit of work with a therapist can help you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-a-mental-breakdown-last-10-15-minutes", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I have the perfect guy, but I'm not attracted to him. I'm in a long-distance relationship with my ideal man, but I'm not as attracted to him as I should be. The next step is marriage, but I want to marry someone who I can wake up to and fall in love with all over again. However, I also don't want to throw away a great relationship over what might just be lust. Am I asking for too much in the \"perfect guy\"?\nTherapist: The basic guideline for relationship satisfaction, is to know what you can and cannot live with and without. And, since you are considering marriage, for how long do you imagine yourself being satisfied living with and without certain qualities of your partner. Whatever the reason, now is a good time to state this about yourself. He may be quite willing and interested in developing new ways of sexually stimulating you. On some level he must know that he doesn't satisfy you. He may be relieved to hear you bring up the topic!As always, remember that if discussing a relationship matter feel hard to start, consider utilizing therapy services with a professional, credentialed and licensed therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-the-perfect-guy-but-i-m-not-attracted-to-him", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What can I do when I can\u2019t stand being alone? I have no real friends. I have a girlfriend who irritates me but loves me to death. I push her away and pushes me away. We\u2019re going through a breakup, and I have nobody.\nTherapist: Having time all to yourself may be necessary so you have time to reflect on your own identity and values, become more clear on what matters most to you, and with this increased self-understanding, be able to attract people who will feel like satisfying friends. Having a relationship with someone whom you push away and are pushed away, with someone who is irritating, seems to have limited benefit for each of you. Maybe you are together from fear of being alone, and being alone is exactly what you may now need in your life in order to draw more favorable people to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-when-i-can-t-stand-being-alone", "topics": "Relationships,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I get some closure on an experience I regret? Back in high school, my friend and I used to masturbate around each other. I hate even talking about it now because it's so weird. We didn't even realize how messed up it was at the time. One time, it escalated and we ended up doing it for each other. It wasn't supposed to be a gay thing, but it sure sounds like it now that I talk about it. I pushed this away until it recently came up in my head again. I'm having a lot of trouble.\nTherapist: Writing about your high school masturbation times with your friend, is itself a form of acknowledging the full picture of who you are. You are doing well to reflect on your actions in the truthful way you are doing. Also positive is that you have perspective, that at your age and social maturity, you were innocently doing something that in adult terms, would be considered in a negative way. Maybe through your more mature mind's eye of today, you can feel some compassion and understanding for your high school self. This way your sense of self-judgment may start to dissolve a little bit more.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-some-closure-on-an-experience-i-regret", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I feel like I'm this dumb fat girl that no one likes, and everything is my fault. Are these normal teenage girl feelings? Everyone around me is much smarter and flaunts it. Everyone around me is skinny, and here I am trying to throw up so I'm not fat. Everything I do is wrong, and I can't seem to do anything right! No one else at school seems to feel the way I do! Is this normal teenage girls feelings? I don't think these feelings are normal.\nTherapist: There are some struggles that are less \"obvious\" than others, an eating disorder being one of them. From just your personal experience alone you might realize how easy it may seem to keep such a secret from those around you. In the same way, there are many people who struggle secretly with this problem and not many people know or even notice. Breaking habits that come along with an eating disorder really requires the help of a doctor, nutritionist, and a therapist who can help change your perspective from the inside out!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-i-m-this-dumb-fat-girl-that-no-one-likes-and-everything-is-my-fault-are-these-normal-teenage-girl-feelings", "topics": "Self-esteem,Eating Disorders"}, {"text": "User: I have the perfect guy, but I'm not attracted to him. I'm in a long-distance relationship with my ideal man, but I'm not as attracted to him as I should be. The next step is marriage, but I want to marry someone who I can wake up to and fall in love with all over again. However, I also don't want to throw away a great relationship over what might just be lust. Am I asking for too much in the \"perfect guy\"?\nTherapist: Attraction is important but sometimes over-rated. Are you satisfied with your sexual relationship when you are with him? There will always be attractive men and more attractive men than your partner and these attractive men will be even more appealing when you are in a long-distance relationship far from the arms of your partner. It sounds like you think very highly of this man \"everything else is perfect about him\". Maybe it is worth spending some more time together in the same place if that is possible before deciding on marriage or that you are not truly in love.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-the-perfect-guy-but-i-m-not-attracted-to-him", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: In the state of New York, is it legal for someone to record a counseling session without telling the counselor or the other person in the session? nan\nTherapist: In New York (like most states), the law generally is what's called a \"one-party consent\" rule. This means that in most cases it is legal to record a conversation as long as consent has been granted by at least one person involved in the conversation. It probably would not be illegal for a client to secretly record a counseling session without the consent of the counselor. Since only one person's consent is required, it would be sufficient that the client consented. Similarly, it would be a violation of ethical standards (and maybe a violation of law) for a counselor to secretly record a session without the client's consent.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/in-the-state-of-new-york-is-it-legal-for-someone-to-record-a-counseling-session-without-telling-the-counselor-or-the-other-person-in-the-session", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: I'm in high school, and I want to be a psychologist. I just wanted to get to know one so I can hear about their college experience and the courses they took. I also wanted to know if they enjoy their job and how long they were in school.\nTherapist: It's a great idea for you to reach out to find a psychologist to talk to if this is a field you might be interested in pursuing. Regarding the length of schooling, it generally takes 4 years of college and an additional 4 to 7 years of graduate school to earn a doctorate degree to become a psychologist. There are also other similar professions, including counseling that don't require a doctorate degree. Licensed counselors generally completed 4 years of college and an additional 2 years of graduate school. If you are thinking about a career in psychology, the local APA chapter would be a good place to start to find a local psychologist to talk to.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-in-high-school-and-i-want-to-be-a-psychologist", "topics": "Career Counseling,Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: Should I get a new therapist? I have an eating disorder of binging. I've had gastric sleeve surgery. I need help with issues of abuse as a child, addiction, and abusive men. I have been in therapy for five months and get no feedback from my therapist.\nTherapist: It can be really frustrating to feel like your counselor is not providing you with the help you need. My recommendation in a situation like this would be to let your counselor know how you feel. Specifically tell Your counselor that you don't seem to be getting the amount of feedback you would like. If this doesn't help, then you might want to look for another counselor who will be a better fit for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-get-a-new-therapist", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: Is it appropriate to give my counselor a bottle of wine for Christmas? I am an international student, and it is my first semester in graduate school in the United States. I faced a cultural shock, and I was so depressed when I arrived here. My counselor in the university was my savior. He helped me a great deal. Now I am going back to my country for a vacation. I was thinking to get him something special with my country's name on it, and I remembered that he likes wine. My country is known for that. Is it appropriate to give him wine as a gift after Christmas?\nTherapist: In general it is not appropriate for counselors to accept gifts from their clients. There are some exceptions to this general rule - including a recognition that there may be a valid cultural aspect to this type of gift giving. It might be best to simply offer your counselor a holiday card as an expression of your feelings. You could also talk to your counselor about the gift and ask if him it if would be appropriate. In the end, I know he would most appreciate just knowing how much the counseling meant to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-appropriate-to-give-my-counselor-a-bottle-of-wine-for-christmas", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: I think my wife is running from the pain of losing our first born. My wife is trying to leave. She agreed to come back and give me a little time. Even said she hopes I can do it. We buried our first born in Jan 13 years ago. She never got past it. So every year around this time, she gets emotional and says she doesn't think she loves me, but then we go back to normal.  This time, another guy came in and showed her attention. I'll forgive the cheating if she'll come home.\nTherapist: I'm sorry that you lost your first born child. There are many possible areas to examine in your relationship as partners and as parents. Keep in mind that looking deeply doesn't necessarily mean leaving the marriage. Also, be aware of your own frustrations and marital discontent. There is no such thing as one happy partner in a marriage and one unhappy partner. The conversations that open relationship hurts and disappointments, hold a lot of emotion. Best recommendation is to find a couples therapist who will be neutral to each of you as individuals, and help both of you examine the true health of the relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-think-my-wife-is-running-from-the-pain-of-losing-our-first-born", "topics": "Marriage,Grief and Loss"}, {"text": "User: How do I stop obsessively checking if my boyfriend is cheating? My dad cheated on my mom for 13 years. I cannot stop obsessing over the fact that my boyfriend might be cheating on me even when I know he isn't. I have full access to his phone, social media, and e-mails. I never find anything, but I'm obsessed with constantly checking just in case. How do I stop this? It's driving a wedge between us.\nTherapist: Hi Greenville, I respect that you're owning your own overreactions, and that you want to give your boyfriend the respect he deserves. The answer here is in two different areas. These thoughts are only habits, they don't reflect the truth. Once you figure out what fear is trying to tell you, picture those words in red next time they come up. Ask yourself what the evidence is that supports that thought (there won't be much...perhaps none), and what is the evidence that doesn't support it (I know lots of good men, I know I deserve love and loyalty, there is no sign of infidelity...).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stop-obsessively-checking-if-my-boyfriend-is-cheating", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why am I so nervous talking to people? Whether it's to a guy or girl, I always feel insecure talking, and I am afraid of embarrassing myself and not being good enough. Even when I am walking, I worry about my appearance and facial expression and such.\nTherapist: I'm glad you wrote, because I think a lot of people have this same issue (to different degrees) and we don't talk about it much. Like many people, you lack compassion for yourself, acceptance of yourself and confidence in yourself. Our sensitivities usually come from (as well as genetics) a specific time in our life when we experienced or felt something that was overwhelming and we end up with an alarm system that overreacts at times. Without more details, it's difficult to go further here. I recommend you see a therapist who does cognitive behavioural therapy, which can help you understand the roots of your fears and learn how to manage them more successfully.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-so-nervous-talking-to-people", "topics": "Self-esteem,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Should I get a new therapist? I have an eating disorder of binging. I've had gastric sleeve surgery. I need help with issues of abuse as a child, addiction, and abusive men. I have been in therapy for five months and get no feedback from my therapist.\nTherapist: Hi Anaheim,Relationships with therapists have some things in common with other relationships; they work best if there is dialogue about what your hopes, thoughts, emotions and needs are. Your therapist is wise if they ask questions that determine what your needs are, but they can't read your mind. We have different styles; some are more \u00a0passive and focus on listening. If this is the case, it doesn't mean s/he's a bad therapist...it's just not what you're looking for. Sometimes people think they can't end sessions with their therapist; they might be worried about hurt feelings. Maybe ask them questions first about their style, even.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-get-a-new-therapist", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: My fianc\u00e9 is trying to hide that he's texting his ex-girlfriend. My fianc\u00e9 doesn't think I trust him because I was cheated on before. However, he hides his phone and has been texting his ex-girlfriend, who he has two kids with. What should I do?\nTherapist: Oh Chino, I only have half the picture here so I will be cautious. One thing I see clearly is that your fiance will always have to have communications with his ex, because they have children. When suspicion and insecurity come along, your job is to look at the big picture and the real picture. If so, then it's not fair to punish him for the betrayals of others. See, this is the chicken and the egg...is he hiding the phone because you've been overreacting when he gets a text? You have sensitivities, and it helps you a lot if he's aware of them and willing to try not to do things that trigger fear.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-fianc-is-trying-to-hide-that-he-s-texting-his-ex-girlfriend", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it appropriate to give my counselor a bottle of wine for Christmas? I am an international student, and it is my first semester in graduate school in the United States. I faced a cultural shock, and I was so depressed when I arrived here. My counselor in the university was my savior. He helped me a great deal. Now I am going back to my country for a vacation. I was thinking to get him something special with my country's name on it, and I remembered that he likes wine. My country is known for that. Is it appropriate to give him wine as a gift after Christmas?\nTherapist: Hi,\u00a0Different therapists are guided by the ethical guidelines of their own associations or colleges when it comes to receiving gifts, so this may differ a bit from therapist to therapist. It's important to me that I be sensitive to cultural norms, and to my client's needs. In Canada, and the US, it is customary for people to sometimes express gratitude with a small gift, and I have from time to time received small tokens of appreciation because I believe it would be rude to refuse this.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-appropriate-to-give-my-counselor-a-bottle-of-wine-for-christmas", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: I'm scared to go to a doctor or take anti-depressants. A friend of mine taking psychology advised I go to my doctor to check if I have major depressive disorder. I'm afraid of the consequences of doing so. I\u2019m also afraid of taking any anti-depressants. This year, my doctor gave me some for a \"dislocated hip.\" I had a severe reaction and passed out moments after taking them.\nTherapist: I admire your courage for stating your view about anti-depressants. If someone does not know how they are feeling, then they will have more difficulty in understanding themselves, their uncertainties and hesitations, and overall, how they relate to others and what they expect from others. Basically, respect and follow your own opinion about anti-depressants. It is a minority opinion, and very valid. If you would like to shop for a therapist, ask the person on the phone, what their opinions are about anti-depressants.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-scared-to-go-to-a-doctor-or-take-anti-depressants", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I have an old roommate who might be a psychopath. I was \u201cmentored\u201d by this guy for a few years spiritually. It was okay at times, but other times, it was just weird. I try not to think about it too much, but a lot of manipulation and lying happened, yet no one else really believed me when I told them. It's like he's two different people, and no one else really sees that side of him. I'm worried because he's in a trusted position of leadership and no one suspects anything. They just think I'm attacking his character.\nTherapist: You may intuitively be sensing what many professionals in the social sciences and psychology have already understood. Just Google \"psychopaths and leadership\" and many articles come up about boardroom politics and that psychopaths are very successful in these roles. And, I consider your question as a mark of your sensitive awareness toward other people. Psychopaths know how to be charming and to twist words so that others believe that their own interest is the same as the psychopath's. I agree with you about not being able to change people's minds who are attached to this person's interactions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-an-old-roommate-who-might-be-a-psychopath", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I control my anger? When I see something I don\u2019t like, I go off like a ticking time bomb. I go from \u201c0 to 100\u201d really quickly.\nTherapist: Sometimes we react to situations immediately, without thinking of the consequences of our actions. Typically by not reacting right away, we are better able to gather our thoughts, see the situation more clearly and from other perspectives, and respond more calmly. One of the strategies that almost always helps is deep breathing. After doing so, think of the various ways you can respond to the situation and choose the one most appropriate.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-my-anger-2", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: My ex-boyfriend is with someone new, and it hurts. I just got out of a two year relationship. He was talking to other women and lying about it. He cried and told me \"I'm still in love with you, I never stopped loving you,\" and I cried tears of joy. I asked multiple times if he loved me and asked to make sure he wasn't just saying that because of me being so depressed. He also told me he was 100% sure he'd never love me again. Just knowing that someone else is with him hurts me.\nTherapist: I am very sorry for the pain you are suffering. There will certainly be a grieving process that you go through and time passing will allow the hurt to subside. While starting over and trying out new ways of being may seem like a daunting task,\u00a0it will only make things easier and give you a\u00a0sense of hope and purpose for your future. With the new year right around the corner, this could be viewed as a good time and opportunity to get reaquainted with yourself and set goals related\u00a0to living a more fullfilling life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-ex-boyfriend-is-with-someone-new-and-it-hurts", "topics": "Depression,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I have a better relationship with my father? I am always arguing with my father. He gets stressed over work and health and talks to me in a tone of voice that seems very demanding and seems more like yelling. I get upset often at this. Am I too sensitive? He always says I am overreacting but never seems to understand that he is hurting my feelings. No matter how often I try to tell him this, he never listens.\nTherapist: Regardless of whether or not you are sensitive, it is okay to want better communication with those who are important to you. Also, avoid using black and white terms such as never and always. Additionally, offer sugggestions as to ways that he can better communicate with you. Lastly, when delivering a message, I like to use the sandwich method by starting off the discussion\u00a0with something postive and ending it with something postive. There are times that\u00a0I feel angry when you talk to me aggressively. Perhaps you can try talking to me using a calmer tone when I bring up heated topics.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-better-relationship-with-my-father", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I have the perfect guy, but I'm not attracted to him. I'm in a long-distance relationship with my ideal man, but I'm not as attracted to him as I should be. The next step is marriage, but I want to marry someone who I can wake up to and fall in love with all over again. However, I also don't want to throw away a great relationship over what might just be lust. Am I asking for too much in the \"perfect guy\"?\nTherapist: Hi Montgomery,\u00a0Your first sentence says it all. Did you make a connection through social media or email first? There are complications, though, and one of the drawbacks is you can feel very connected to someone and care about them a great deal before you ever meet them in person. My guess is that you feel you owe this man your affection and commitment even though you're not really all that into him (lusting after other men is a sign of that), because you like absolutely everything else about him. Someone else might drool over him and I think he deserves someone who does just that.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-the-perfect-guy-but-i-m-not-attracted-to-him", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My husband doesn't trust me. My husband doesn\u2019t trust me for some past we had. I know all marriages have their ups and downs, but sometimes, I feel I am getting tired of the same thing over and over: that I am messing around, which I am not.\nTherapist: Hi Louisiana,It's normal when trust has been broken in the past for fear and insecurities to come up from time to time. His reactions may not mean that he doesn't trust you, but rather that he gets scared that he's going to be hurt again. If you did, then you might try taking an approach where you a) take responsibility for your past actions, b) show an understanding of and compassion for his pain about that, c) do everything you can to demonstrate trust and show that he is your priority, and d) reassure him when he says he's scared or feeling insecure. Also important, however, is your need for respect. A qualified therapist can help you sort through this trick territory.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-doesn-t-trust-me", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop abusing alcohol? I have bipolar II disorder, I'm addicted to alcohol and weed, and I'm hopeless. I keep drinking even though it's harming myself and others.\nTherapist: You may feel hopeless but YOU are not hopeless. Addictions of any sort are difficult to overcome, especially when they serve to bury pain and suffering that one is experiencing. It is not impossible to overcome alcohol or drug use/abuse/dependence on your own, but you will likely find much greater success with the help of a therapist or other support system such as rehabilitation or Alcoholics Anonymous. Know that recovery takes time, willingness, and effort. Don't give up and remember that you are not hopeless.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-abusing-alcohol", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: My husband doesn't trust me. My husband doesn\u2019t trust me for some past we had. I know all marriages have their ups and downs, but sometimes, I feel I am getting tired of the same thing over and over: that I am messing around, which I am not.\nTherapist: It is incredibly frustrating to not be trusted when you know you are doing nothing wrong. If the lack of trust on your husband's end has to do with something you did in the past, then be patient and give it time. Once trust is broken it takes time and effort to gain it back. Seeing a couple's counselor is never a bad idea and it would also be beneficial for you and or/your husband to seek out individual therapy. There may be other unknown factors that you are unaware of that are contributing to the trust issues and inability to resolve them.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-doesn-t-trust-me", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How do I find myself? I don't know what to say. I have never really known who I am.\nTherapist: What exactly is it that you are looking for? Different people define themselves in different ways. For example, one person may define himself by his values and morals while another identifies herself by her personality and characteristics. Still, another person may define himself by his interests and hobbies. At the same time, who you are may change according to what experiences you have had and how you have dealt with them or felt about them. Try viewing the journey of finding yourself as exciting and ongoing. Allow yourself to feel emotions and learn how they relate to the\u00a0experiences you have.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-myself", "topics": "Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: My husband doesn't trust me. My husband doesn\u2019t trust me for some past we had. I know all marriages have their ups and downs, but sometimes, I feel I am getting tired of the same thing over and over: that I am messing around, which I am not.\nTherapist: I'm sorry to hear about the trust issues in your relationship. Trust, as you clearly know, is essential to healthy relationships. On your end, you may need to provide more reassurance and more concrete evidence that you are trustworthy, gestures of transparency (e.g. - giving him more information about where you are going and who you will be with, letting him know when you get texts or emails from people that might give him pause or trigger insecurities), and more patience and empathy for his fears. If you are not able to come to agreements about how to put his fears to rest without it negatively impacting your life, I would suggest getting some professional help from a marriage counsellor or couples therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-doesn-t-trust-me", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop abusing alcohol? I have bipolar II disorder, I'm addicted to alcohol and weed, and I'm hopeless. I keep drinking even though it's harming myself and others.\nTherapist: I'm hearing your hopelessness and fear about the damage of your substance use and it sounds like you have reason for concern. We all look for comfort when we are in pain and this may be the way that you are getting comfort - even though it is also hurting you. Have you talked with your health care providers about your concerns or friends or family members?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-abusing-alcohol", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: I've worked with this guy for about three years now, and I knew the first time I saw him that I was attracted. Over time, he became a very dear friend, and we talked about our relationship problems, family, dreams, and so on. There was always flirtation with us, and one day pretty recently, it progressed to making out. It didn't, and three months later, I'm still not over it. He's a hugger and such a sweet guy, so I find myself fantasizing all the time about what could have been and what could still be, but he's clearly not interested.\nTherapist: If you want to maintain your friendship and continue to have regular contact with him, getting over him may not be possible. What makes it even trickier is that his actions (hugs and touching) may be misleading and are allowing you to believe that a romantic relationship is possible. Some ways in which we naturally get over others are when we fall in love with someone else or when we suddenly see the person we like in a more negative or unattractive light. If you truly want to force yourself to get over him, cutting contact\u00a0or setting strict boundaries may be necessary.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-a-coworker", "topics": "Workplace Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My husband doesn't trust me. My husband doesn\u2019t trust me for some past we had. I know all marriages have their ups and downs, but sometimes, I feel I am getting tired of the same thing over and over: that I am messing around, which I am not.\nTherapist: The good news in the way you're feeling is recognizing that your husband's trust of your actions, makes a difference to you. The typical therapy formula for restoring trust between two people after some sort of betrayal, is for the one who has broken the trust, to earn it back. Restoring trust requires both persons to actively involve themselves in this process. The person who tires earning back trust, must know what standards for this, of the one who was betrayed. Good luck in establishing new terms with your partner!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-doesn-t-trust-me", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I've worked with this guy for about three years now, and I knew the first time I saw him that I was attracted. Over time, he became a very dear friend, and we talked about our relationship problems, family, dreams, and so on. There was always flirtation with us, and one day pretty recently, it progressed to making out. It didn't, and three months later, I'm still not over it. He's a hugger and such a sweet guy, so I find myself fantasizing all the time about what could have been and what could still be, but he's clearly not interested.\nTherapist: How frustrating to want a relationship with someone who does not feel similarly!The person who needs to be at the top of your list of those whose interest you consider, is yourself. Since the guy has told you he would like limiting his involvement with you, more than likely you will be protecting yourself from disappointed wishes, by taking his words seriously. Since you've made your interest in him clear, it sound like he's taking advantage of what you're willing to offer him. Good luck with defining the qualities of a partner with who you will feel fulfilled by sharing yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-a-coworker", "topics": "Workplace Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I see a therapist without having healthcare? I need to speak to someone about sexual addiction and binge eating immediately.\nTherapist: Depending on your area and location, there may be therapists who provide services on a sliding scale. Additionally, churches will often times\u00a0offer counseling for free or for a small fee. I suggest doing a simple Google search and contact therapists in your area. It never hurts to ask for a reduced fee and even if he or she is unable to provide the service, they may be able to refer you to someone who can.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-see-a-therapist-without-having-healthcare", "topics": "Eating Disorders,Human Sexuality,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: Should I break up with my live-in girlfriend? She recently moved in with me partially because she wanted to and partially because she had no place to go. She doesn't like my insecurity and lack of trust I have for her. She's very submissive and she loves me very much, but also the fact that she has nowhere to go must be influencing her decision to stay.\nTherapist: Hi Fort Worth, \u00a0I applaud your awareness and insight into the relationship. Most of us come into relationships carrying old baggage and although you can't change her, \u00a0what you can do, is change yourself. It has more to do with you and less to do with her. Your relationship with her is tapping into unresolved issues within yourself. Finding a Therapist can be a big help in this process. You are asking the question, so I suspect you are ready to look at the man in the mirror.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-break-up-with-my-live-in-girlfriend-3", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Should I break up with my live-in girlfriend? She recently moved in with me partially because she wanted to and partially because she had no place to go. She doesn't like my insecurity and lack of trust I have for her. She's very submissive and she loves me very much, but also the fact that she has nowhere to go must be influencing her decision to stay.\nTherapist: Are you possibly mixing up an impulse to nurture and protect someone, such as by offering housing, and your own need to feel loved and appreciated as a romantic partner?Maybe your feeling of jealousy is really your awareness of a reasonable need to be loved by a partner. Maybe too, what she considers your insecurity, is really her unwillgness to love you. It's always easier to put distance between two people by insulting them. I hope this gives you a few new ways to look at your situation.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-break-up-with-my-live-in-girlfriend-3", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm scared of hurting my boyfriend after he had a cyst removed from his testicles. My boyfriend and I have not had sex in a couple of weeks. He had to have a cyst removed on his testicles. I have been wanting to have sex with him for a while now, and it drives me crazy not to be able to make love to him. I'm scared to touch him and get close to him because I'm afraid that I will hurt him.\nTherapist: Are you talking with your boyfriend about his doctor advises on starting to have sex again?Being able to talk together about topics that involve both of you, will establish a new type of intimacy on an emotional level. Also, there are many ways of making love. If your bf's cyst hasn't yet healed, then another way of both increasing your emotional intimacy and learning different love making suggestions, is to read about these together with him. I hope the two of you enjoy learning new ways of sexually taking care of one another, while developing more emotional closeness in the process.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-scared-of-hurting-my-boyfriend-after-he-had-a-cyst-removed-from-his-testicles", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My parents are threatening to send me away if I don't play basketball for a team I hate. However, my parents say I can play on either both teams or neither. I think it's unfair because it's up to me if I want to play for a certain team. I was planning on playing basketball for the high school I get into, but if that means continuing to play for the team I hate, then I wouldn't want to play in high school. My parents are threatening to send me off to a different home if I don't play.\nTherapist: The situation in your family seems to place unnecessary pressure on you. Are you and your parents able to talk together about their reason for their standard?Are your parents willing to listen to your reasons to not play on the team you hate?If yes, then maybe some type of compromise is possible for all of you to negotiate. If none of the above is possible, then you may want to get specific and direct advice from a professional, such as the school guidance counselor or psychologist, whom you'd trust and feel safe in talking. I hope you and your parents will find an answer that all of you are happy to accept.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-parents-are-threatening-to-send-me-away-if-i-don-t-play-basketball-for-a-team-i-hate", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I get my boyfriend to see my point of view when we argue? I had to go to the emergency room today to get an X-ray of my spine. My boyfriend didn't want to sit there and wait with me. Instead, he wanted to go do things for his friends while I waited. When I was done, he was twenty minutes late in picking me up. He doesn't understand why I'm mad, and we keep bickering at each other over the smallest things. He thinks I don't have a reason to be mad, but I believe that I do.\nTherapist: It is extremely frustrating when our significant other doesn't understand our points of view. Often times, arguments are not the best opportunities to try and make a point, as strong emotions can get in the way of understanding others' perspectives. Try having a discussion with him about what is bothering you during a time when neither if you are upset or arguing. Communicate how you feel without placing blame and without yelling. Addionally, give him ideas of what he can do differently so that he understands what your expectations are. Lastly, consider seeing a couple's therapist who can assist with teaching more effective communication techniques.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-my-boyfriend-to-see-my-point-of-view-when-we-argue", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Should I break up with my live-in girlfriend? She recently moved in with me partially because she wanted to and partially because she had no place to go. She doesn't like my insecurity and lack of trust I have for her. She's very submissive and she loves me very much, but also the fact that she has nowhere to go must be influencing her decision to stay.\nTherapist: It sounds like there are assumptions being made regarding how she feels about you and why she is with you. I would not suggest breaking up with her without first attempting to resolve your own issues. You may not only regret your decision, but might find that the exact same problem arises in future relationships. I would recommend seeing a therapist who can help you figure out what is at the root of all of this. By learning about your own insecurities and where they come from, you can expect to discover new ways of responding and relating to others, which will likely impact your relationship in a positive manner.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-break-up-with-my-live-in-girlfriend-3", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Relationships cause me anxiety and nausea. Whenever I get close to being in a relationship, some kind of anxiety takes over and keeps me from the relationship. This anxiety causes me depression at times and even makes me want to vomit. While a semi-relationship should be joyous, for me, it\u2019s an emotional nightmare I can\u2019t get to the bottom of. I\u2019ve had this before and had to leave the semi-relationship to avoid throwing up every time I made contact with my crush.\nTherapist: Hi Helena,I felt a bit sad when I read this. I hear a lot of young women (I'm not sure you're female, but that's my guess) say that they struggle with hook-ups because they can't let themselves hope for a phone call after a hook-up. Research tells us that, after a hook-up, college age women tend to feel used and unworthy, and men tend to feel guilty. Maybe take a moment and listen to anxiety. What is the worst thing that might happen here?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/relationships-cause-me-anxiety-and-nausea", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I get my boyfriend to see my point of view when we argue? I had to go to the emergency room today to get an X-ray of my spine. My boyfriend didn't want to sit there and wait with me. Instead, he wanted to go do things for his friends while I waited. When I was done, he was twenty minutes late in picking me up. He doesn't understand why I'm mad, and we keep bickering at each other over the smallest things. He thinks I don't have a reason to be mad, but I believe that I do.\nTherapist: Hi Moore, Underneath all your anger is a lot of hurt. The hurt is there because you are being disrespected. This is happening because this is the level of ability (disability?) You can expect more of this behaviour (because that's who he is; it has nothing to do with you), and I hope you think carefully about whether it's working for you to be in this. I hope you talk to someone who knows and supports you about how you're feeling in this relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-my-boyfriend-to-see-my-point-of-view-when-we-argue", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What can i do if there is no trust in our relationship? I just got married with my husband. I have four kids of my own, and he accepts me with my kids. I am thankful he loves my kids even though they\u2019re not his. Now we are having problems in our relationship because of my past. I know all marriages have problems, but sometimes I feel it\u2019s not going to work out if there\u2019s no trust. It\u2019s hard for me to let go because I love him, but I am getting tired.\nTherapist: Hi Louisiana,You say that the problems are with your \"past\", but my hunch is the problems are about his insecurity and his personal barriers to trust (unless you've recently revealed details of a sordid past?). Trust is the first stage in a relationship. That's because only as we become emotionally intimate do our deeper fears and insecurities come to the surface. I give you credit for wanting it to work, and I believe you would benefit from the support of a therapist in working through the kinks related to trust.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-if-there-is-no-trust-in-our-relationship", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I lie to my mom about my relationship. I use to be so happy. No matter what, I always was happy. I got into a relationship with this guy. I love him so much. We\u2019re both teenagers. The week after his birthday, my mom made me stop talking to him. It broke me. He came to my house and talked to her, and she let us date again but not see each other. He comes up to my school every day and it tears me apart that I have to lie to her.\nTherapist: Hi Los Angeles, I can tell you have a moral backbone because it's hurting you to lie to your mom. There's a big difference between being thirteen and your mom telling you what to do and being nineteen and your mom telling you what to do. You might not like this part...your parent has the right to make the rules. Too many parents are sort of looking the other way, busy with their own thing. So, you're sending her that message that you want to send, but you're doing it in a sneaky way, and that's not going to go well when she finds out.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-lie-to-my-mom-about-my-relationship", "topics": "Relationships,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I\u2019ve suffered from insomnia and nightmares for about 3 years. It takes me a long time to fall asleep; I\u2019d estimate about two hours. I often have nightmares, starting with being eaten by a monster, and I often wake up frightened and unable to breathe. I believe I started losing sleep after breaking up with a girlfriend of 8 years. Also, my father\u2019s business went bankrupt and my mother has a chronic condition. I was under a lot of stress, and life lost meaning.\nTherapist: You\u2019re noticing that as you lie down to go to sleep, there is quite a bit going on, which may be anxiety related. It sounds like the dreams and difficulty sleeping are reminiscent of previous experiences you had around the time of your break up, the difficulty with your father\u2019s business, and your mother\u2019s health issues. These connections to past events may be important insights to continue exploring in addition to finding out more about what your dreams may be trying to tell you. I think that exploring these issues further with a therapist could help you resolve whatever is causing you the stress, trouble sleeping, and frightening dreams.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-ve-suffered-from-insomnia-and-nightmares-for-about-3-years", "topics": "Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: I'm studying abroad, and I'm depressed. I'm supposed to stay here the rest of my academic life, but I've never liked it here, not even before I came. I\u2019ve never felt like I belong, I\u2019ve missed my country every second in the past four months, and I'm just miserable. I'm gaining weight, doing nothing, and crying for hours straight. Is it time to go back home or is it just culture shock?\nTherapist: It sounds like you are feeling very unsure and out of place and the prospect of continuing to feel as you do now for the remainder of schooling seems daunting. Without getting to know more about you and your experiences here and at home, it is hard to say what you should do, however, I think exploring these things with a competent therapist may help you to discover the answer.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-studying-abroad-and-i-m-depressed", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: What do I do about a cousin who makes me feel belittled, insecure and frustrated? Hello, I have a cousin in my family who has been making me feel belittled, insecure, and frustrated during her stay here in the city. I have been thinking a lot about her comments and whether I truly am an inconsiderate person who is not thoughtful, spatially aware of surroundings/people, or positive, but in the end, I am feeling awfully hurt about how this has affected our relationship.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are feeling pretty criticized by your cousin and at the same time you are wondering whether or not there is some truth in what she is saying. It also sounds like you would like to see if you can find a new way to relate to your cousin, so that your relationship can be more satisfying. If you can find a competent therapist to work with, there may be a great deal of opportunity to learn more about how you relate to people in the world and to learn strategies to show up in your relationship with your cousin in a way that feels right to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-do-i-do-about-a-cousin-who-makes-me-feel-belittled-insecure-and-frustrated", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I've worked with this guy for about three years now, and I knew the first time I saw him that I was attracted. Over time, he became a very dear friend, and we talked about our relationship problems, family, dreams, and so on. There was always flirtation with us, and one day pretty recently, it progressed to making out. It didn't, and three months later, I'm still not over it. He's a hugger and such a sweet guy, so I find myself fantasizing all the time about what could have been and what could still be, but he's clearly not interested.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have mixed feelings and motivations - which is understandable. It will be really hard to let go of him and create friend boundaries so long as there is a part of you holding on to the idea of something more. If you are being really honest with yourself you might need to acknowledge that you are not really striving to get him out of your system - that you have not really given up hope of having a relationship with him. If you are whole-heartedly committed to moving past the sexual and romantic parts of your relationship and just having a friendship than refraining from all the touching would be a good place to start.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-a-coworker", "topics": "Workplace Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do you cope with the death of your child, while surrounded with your parents who aren't supportive and disregard your feelings? nan\nTherapist: First of all, I am very sorry to hear about your loss, which must be very painful. It sounds like in addition to the loss, you are also feeling invalidated by your parents and alone with your grief. Grieving is a very personal and sometimes complex process which many people are ill equipped to support us through. If you can get the support of a competent therapist, this may be quite valuable in helping work through this process.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-cope-with-the-death-of-your-child-while-surrounded-with-your-parents-who-aren-t-supportive-and-disregard-your-feelings", "topics": "Grief and Loss"}, {"text": "User: How do I make myself happy without someone who made me happy? How do I make myself happy without the people who made me happy? Now that they\u2019re gone, I feel sad. It\u2019s been two months now but I seem to be unable to stay okay and independent.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have been feeling pretty down, since the loss of a relationship, and you're wondering how to be happy by yourself. Intimacy is a very natural human desire and at the same time learning to enjoy ourselves, even when we are alone, can strengthen our ability to lead a satisfying life in and out of relationship. Working with a therapist, you may be able to gain insight into how you show up in your relationships with yourself and others and discover more fulfilling ways to do so.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-make-myself-happy-without-someone-who-made-me-happy", "topics": "Depression,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm overwhelmed and depressed. I'm unemployed just relocated. I can't get approved for a place to live because of past mistakes which follow me to this day. I'm depressed and on the verge of loosing my partner because I'm overwhelmed and have trouble functioning on a daily basis. I see no light at the end of this tunnel and need some help. I see no point in this chaos infested joke some call life.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are feeling like things are hopeless and out of control and you're not sure what to do about it. If you can find a competent therapist to work with, together you may be able to come up with some strategies for alleviating the overwhelming distress that you are experiencing and gain some insight into what may be contributing to these challenges. Additionally, a therapist may be able to support you in getting back on your feet in regards to work, a place to live, and showing up with your partner in a way that will be more satisfying to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-overwhelmed-and-depressed", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with anger problems towards my mom. nan\nTherapist: Anger is a natural and healthy emotion, however, it can be difficult to deal with if it becomes overwhelming and depending on what we have been taught about it and how to express it. A competent therapist may be able to help you figure out ways to relate to your anger and your mother that will feel right to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-anger-problems-towards-my-mom", "topics": "Anger Management,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My husband yells \u201cenough\u201d when I tell him he needs to change. That phrase makes me crazy. It happens anytime I point out something to my husband that he needs to change, such as looking up from his iPad long enough for me to tell him the grandbaby almost pulled the shelf unit over or explaining to him that I got all the things he needs to bake a pie. Another example is when he opens the front door, the dog runs out if he doesn't pick him up. Over and over again, he lets the dog run out, and I am afraid he will get hit by a car.\nTherapist: I empathize with your feeling \"crazy\" hearing your husband yell \"enough\" in response to you wanting to make a point to him. When the immediate situation has calmed down, \u00a0have you ever told him that this upsets you? A helpful starting place for the two of you to discuss once the immediate situation has calmed down, is what you each feel would have been a reasonable way of handling the situation that just happened. Even if you disagree about what is best, knowing that there are differences between you may make living with them easier to accept, or at least not be surprised and startled by them.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-yells-enough-when-i-tell-him-he-needs-to-change", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is it acceptable for me to find another home for my boyfriend's dog? My boyfriend moved in with me a few months ago. The dog is the only thing we fight about because I want him out of the house and my boyfriend doesn't want to see him go. It\u2019s not the dog fault though; I understand that. He's just too big of a dog for where he is; he should be a farm dog instead of a town dog. I don't hate the dog, but I just can't afford to continue having my house torn to pieces.\nTherapist: Every living creature needs time and support to adjust to a new situation. The dog is in a new place without the ability to understand the reason. This may explain what sounds like the dog's agitation. Have you spoken with your boyfriend on his opinion on how to address the dog behavior problems?Finding an answer together would be a good way of making your relationship stronger. A\u00a0lot of being a couple who live together is talking, listening and deciding together on how to handle major situations. The person would guide you in working with the dog to become calmer.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-acceptable-for-me-to-find-another-home-for-my-boyfriend-s-dog", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why do I see things that are not actually there? It has been going on more often lately, but not all the time. It has been starting to affect my driving, among other things.\nTherapist: It's important to make an appointment with a neurologist and ophthalmologist ASAP for evaluation. There are medical conditions that can create this effect.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-see-things-that-are-not-actually-there", "topics": NaN}, {"text": "User: How do I know if I have social anxiety? I'm a teenager, and I struggle with going out and talking to people. I feel awful about leaving home. I know I can't afford a therapist so I don't know what my problem is, but I think I might have social anxiety.\nTherapist: If you are noticing that anxiety tends to be triggered around interactions with others, then you may have social anxiety. Working with a therapist, you may be able to gain insight into the nature of the anxiety, develop tools for coping with it, and take steps that may alleviate it over time, so that you can enjoy your interactions with others. If you are short on money, there still may be options for you to be able to see a therapist. If you are not insured, some therapists and clinics will work on a sliding fee scale, and accept either low fee or may even work with you pro-bono (for free).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-know-if-i-have-social-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with parental figures who have hurt me? People who are parental figures in my life have, in the past, hurt me, and some continue to do so. It makes me feel like I'm not good enough for my husband or the life he provides me. I have had jobs, but I am going through a lot of my past garbage and trying to figure out when it all went wrong. Any time I bring these things up, I am expected to be over the issue.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have been thinking about how past hurts have influenced you, and when you try to talk about these hurts with people in your life, you are feeling invalidated. It also sounds like current conflicts are continuing to leave you feeling hurt and devalued. In working with a therapist, you may be able to get some clarity about your past, who you are, and what kinds of boundaries you want in your relationships, so that you can lead a life that is more satisfying to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-parental-figures-who-have-hurt-me", "topics": "Depression,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My husband yells \u201cenough\u201d when I tell him he needs to change. That phrase makes me crazy. It happens anytime I point out something to my husband that he needs to change, such as looking up from his iPad long enough for me to tell him the grandbaby almost pulled the shelf unit over or explaining to him that I got all the things he needs to bake a pie. Another example is when he opens the front door, the dog runs out if he doesn't pick him up. Over and over again, he lets the dog run out, and I am afraid he will get hit by a car.\nTherapist: It's hard to say what is okay and what is not okay, as it depends on what you and your husband feel is appropriate in your relationship. Do this during a time when there is little or no conflict and emotions are not heightened. Let him know how you feel and give him specific ideas of how you would like him to respond instead of saying, \"enough.\" Additionally, try and see his perspective and understand why he shuts you down. An open\u00a0dialogue about how to discuss issues going forward will likely help.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-yells-enough-when-i-tell-him-he-needs-to-change", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: My fianc\u00e9e suffers from severe anxiety and depression. Her anxiety in public places is the worst. She get really sick from anxiety and scared to the point that I can't even get her to eat, drink, leave the bed, or go outside. She always tells me how she grew up around so much fighting and fear that it makes her scared of loud sounds, yelling, conflict, and even talking to strangers in public. She will refuse to go to a store unless I am with her to talk to the cashier for her. I don't want my fianc\u00e9e pumped with drugs. She took the dog out every time we went out, and she seemed much calmer and happier.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have been a positive support for your fiancee. While it may feel like you are responsible for her health and happiness, it is important that you understand that you, on your own, won't be able to resolve her mental health issues. Whether or not she decides to take medication is her (and your) decision, but keeping an open mind about treatment options is important. You would also likely benefit from therapy, individual or couple's therapy, in order to address how you are feeling and\u00a0best learn how to support her and your relationship. I wish the very best for both of you and hope that things will improve sooner than later.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/does-my-fianc-e-need-a-service-dog", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I\u2019ve been separated from my husband for six months and he still has not filed for divorce. My husband and I got into a huge dispute. He said he wanted a divorce, and I left. I still come home a lot and see my kids, and he has not filed yet even though he still said he is. What does that mean for our marriage?\nTherapist: In any relationship, including marriage, each partner will be better able to do their part, by understanding their own interests and wishes. Concentrate more on what you'd like from your marriage. This will naturally raise the questions and criteria of what to talk with your husband about and what to ask of him. Since he hasn't taken any action, then for the moment, you can assume he is not sure of what he wants. Once you feel a little more clear on your opinion about your marriage, including feeling uncertain if you'd like it to end or continue, then you will be able to tell your husband the suggestions you have for resolving the dispute matter and emotions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-ve-been-separated-from-my-husband-for-six-months-and-he-still-has-not-filed-for-divorce", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: How do I find myself? I don't know what to say. I have never really known who I am.\nTherapist: Therapy may be an effective way for you to get a stronger sense of who you are. A competent therapist will work to create a safe and curious therapeutic relationship in which you can explore your identity. There are also many different exercises which you can do in and out of therapy which you may find helpful in this area as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-myself", "topics": "Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: I have come to the realization that my boyfriend and I want different things. He lives three hours away and likes the reassurance of having someone to talk to multiple times per day and seeing me once or twice a month. I want someone who is more present and more of a life companion. I told him that I can't continue in this way because I constantly feel frustrated and angry and that he is not making the relationship enough of a priority. The problem is that I panic and experience anxiety and depression thinking of him with someone else and then thinking I will never meet someone I like.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have some insight into the cycle that you describe with your current relationship and at the same time you are still feeling stuck. It also sounds like the distressing feelings that you experience, when you imagine what will happen for you and your current partner, are pretty overwhelming. A competent therapist may be able to help you work through these difficult thoughts and feelings and find a resolution to this cycle that will feel right to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-come-to-the-realization-that-my-boyfriend-and-i-want-different-things", "topics": "Relationships,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Sleeping, Anger and Anxiety. I have a lot of issues going on right now. First of all, I have a lot of trouble sleeping at times, while other nights I sleep too much and still feel quite tired. I\u2019m also noticing increased irritability and experiencing anxiety attacks that last for hours. Is there something wrong with me and if so what should I do?\nTherapist: It sounds like you are noticing yourself becoming overwhelmed with anxiety, feeling more irritable, and struggling to sleep consistently. There are many possibilities, in regards to what may be contributing to these things you are noticing, and a competent therapist may be able to help. In therapy, you may be able to gain insight into these experiences as well as develop strategies for coping with and eventually alleviating anxiety, irritability, and inconsistent sleep.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/sleeping-anger-and-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: Does my friend have depression? I am really worried about one of my friends because I think he has major depression. He disagrees with me on that. He is shut off when it comes to talking to people and telling them how he really feels. He told me he feels empty inside and the only emotions he feels are anger and sadness. I suggested to him to get help and talk to his mom about it but he refuses.\nTherapist: First of all, I can tell that you really care about your friend and I think it's great that you are reaching out with your concern. It's hard to determine whether your friend would meet the criteria for an official diagnosis of depression without working with him, however, whether he does or not, therapy may be beneficial for him in working through these difficult feelings and relational challenges. Unfortunately, you can't make your friend get help. He will ultimately need to make that decision for himself, however, you can talk to him about your concerns and your hopes that he will reach out for help.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/does-my-friend-have-depression", "topics": "Depression,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I always feel depressed. I think about death all the time because I feel so alone. I want someone to love and someone to love me.\nTherapist: I urge you to talk to someone close to you, today, about your feelings, and to also seek professional help for your serious thoughts and feelings. Loneliness is so painful, and when we feel lonely, this can lead to fears that we are not worthy of love or that the world is just a cold and lonely place. First, who in your life, if they were sitting beside you right now, would say \"wait a minute...I love you!\" Then ask yourself \"what is the evidence that I am lovable?\" What qualities do you have that make you a good friend or person? Please reach out to someone today as you ask yourself those questions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-always-feel-depressed", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: I'm desperate for attention, and I don't know what to do about it. I like getting attention from men. I don't have sex. I lead them on to thinking I might want to. I like to tease, I like for men to chase me, and I like to feel wanted.\nTherapist: Hi Michigan, Good for you for recognising a destructive pattern. This behaviour, although it might get you the attention you want initially, will ultimately drive men away because it's not respectful of them. You are certainly acting as if this is true. If you believed in your value as a person, you would be less afraid of deeper relationships and intimacy in general. I'd suggest reaching out to a qualified therapist who can help you get to the root of this behaviour.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-desperate-for-attention-and-i-don-t-know-what-to-do-about-it", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How do I know if I have bipolar disorder? I feel that I am struggling with undiagnosed bipolar disorder, and it is making my day-to-day life extremely difficult.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are experiencing a great deal of distress and you're wondering if it may meet a diagnosis of Bipolar disorder. There are a few different types of Bipolar diagnoses in the DSM (diagnositc and statistical manual) and the best way to find out if your experiences would meet that diagnosis would be to meet with a mental health professional. You can also look up the diagnosis online and see if what you are going through meets the criteria. One question that I would have for you is, what would it mean for you to find out that you meet the criteria for such a diagnosis?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-know-if-i-have-bipolar-disorder", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I\u2019m watching my life from a window? I never feel like myself. I can\u2019t even think straight anymore. I start stuttering and I can\u2019t remember anything. I always get nervous and usually talk myself down but recently end up fighting with, what feels like, someone else. I don\u2019t know why I feel this way, but I hate it.\nTherapist: What you are describing sounds like it may be a form of dissociation. Dissociation is our mind's way of disconnecting us from aspects of our experience in an attempt to protect us in overwhelming situations. It also sounds like you are noticing anxiety in certain situations. In working with a competent therapist, you may be able to gain insight into these experiences, learn skills for coping with anxiety and reconnecting with yourself, and alleviate these symptoms over time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-m-watching-my-life-from-a-window", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I feel like I can't control having inappropriate thoughts. I find that I imagine things sexually, and I hate it because it puts strain on my relationship. I feel helpless and guilty. I want it to go away, and I want to make my woman happy again.\nTherapist: It is completely understandable that you would like to find a way to make these intrusive thoughts go away, however, your feeling that you can't control having these thoughts is accurate. It's also understandable that you would feel helpless and guilty, given that you see how these thoughts are effecting your relationship, though I would encourage you to go easy on yourself and remember that you aren't choosing to have these thoughts. I'm sure that if there was a switch to turn them off, you would flip it. There is no magic technique or pill that can guarantee these thoughts will go away, however, therapy may still have a lot to offer.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-i-can-t-control-having-inappropriate-thoughts", "topics": "Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: I always feel depressed. I think about death all the time because I feel so alone. I want someone to love and someone to love me.\nTherapist: Feeling alone and/or isolated is almost always associated with being depressed. As humans, we need connection and interaction with others in order to feel satisfied. Given that you are frequently thinking about death, I highly recommend that you see a mental health professional as soon as possible to help assess your immediate needs and address any underlying issues that may be contributing to your feelings of loneliness and depression. By learning about where your sadness originates, engaging in preferred activities, and changing your thought patterns, you should begin feeling relief from the burden of depression. Create some short terms goals that you can likely achieve and make your treatment a priority and a focus.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-always-feel-depressed", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: My brother never hangs out with me anymore. I am a teenager, and my brother is a few years older. He has a girlfriend who is always with him. He never hangs out with me anymore. We were really close, and it is making me really sad.\nTherapist: It is always hard when we feel as if we are losing somebody close to us. The fact that your brother doesn't spend as much time with you doesn't mean that he loves you less or doesn't care about you. It most likely means that he is having to split his time between different people and priorities. I suggest that you communicate with him how you feel. Perhaps, ask him if he would be able to set up times that the two of you can hang out, without anyone else present. Keeping yourself distracted in healthy ways and processing your feelings of sadness will likely help with lifting your mood.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-brother-never-hangs-out-with-me-anymore", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My husband doesn't include me in the family. He doesn't involve me with the family or kids. I'm to sit home alone now and Christmas too. We are in our 50s, and it hurts that he won't even think of me or involve me as part of the family. I am leaving him as soon as possible, but I hurt so bad that I didn't know who to turn too. I've been getting serious headaches and can't sleep. This has been going on for a couple weeks now.\nTherapist: Hi Florida,I get the sense that, aside from this relationship, you're quite isolated in general. While I would suggest that you don't really know what he or his family are thinking or feeling (you assume they're against you, and that he doesn't care), he is certainly behaving in a very distant, excluding manner and it's understandable that you would feel rejected and hurt. Has he always acted this way, or is it more recent? Part of the problem, of course, is that you don't know what's going on for him. Have you been open to hearing the truth from him? Is it possible your happiness is a bit too dependant on this man?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-doesn-t-include-me-in-the-family", "topics": "Marriage,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My wife is cheating and won\u2019t tell me the truth. I found out today that my wife is cheating on me. I love her, but she won\u2019t tell the truth even when I have proof. When I beg her to tell the truth, she yells, cusses, and gets a huge attitude.\nTherapist: Hi Prattville,\u00a0I'm sorry this is happening to you. Which way you go from here depends in part on the answer to that question. If, on the other hand, she's planning to end the marriage, then you might want to resign yourself to the fact that you may never get the information you seek. You are better off, in that case, seeking support from friends and family rather than beating on a closed door. Talk to me so we can deal with it together. I want to move forward but I need the truth.\" Only time (and a good therapist, if she is willing and wants the marriage) will tell which way this one will go.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-is-cheating-and-won-t-tell-me-the-truth", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I have a compulsion to fill in holes in my skin with ink. I never get infections or scars or anything, and it doesn't bother me if it gets filled up with blood or something, but I'm concerned.\nTherapist: Hi Houston, The fact that you're concerned says a lot. If I was your therapist I'd ask you questions about your worries and how this is causing a problem in your life. You're causing perhaps permanent changes (damage?) to your body, and it's likely you're trying to express something...pain maybe? A therapist can help you to explore what's going on for you and how to get your needs for self-expression met in a more healthy way.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-a-compulsion-to-fill-in-holes-in-my-skin-with-ink", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I\u2019m watching my life from a window? I never feel like myself. I can\u2019t even think straight anymore. I start stuttering and I can\u2019t remember anything. I always get nervous and usually talk myself down but recently end up fighting with, what feels like, someone else. I don\u2019t know why I feel this way, but I hate it.\nTherapist: Hi Houston, Okay, something's definitely going on, right? My gut is to start with your family physician, because you have some physical symptoms. While it seems anxiety is a likely problem here, your doctor will hopefully know your history and can help you decide if you need some medical tests or some therapy. Without knowing more, that's all I can say at this point.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-m-watching-my-life-from-a-window", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My brother never hangs out with me anymore. I am a teenager, and my brother is a few years older. He has a girlfriend who is always with him. He never hangs out with me anymore. We were really close, and it is making me really sad.\nTherapist: It's so sweet that you have a special relationship with your brother. He's doing what's natural at his age...spreading his wings and looking for love. You may be heading into that zone soon too, but I get that it's weird that he's there before you, and you miss him. Try to respect your brother's autonomy, wish him well, be friendly with his girlfriend, and it's also okay to say \"Hey, bro, I'm still here.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-brother-never-hangs-out-with-me-anymore", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I'm worried that I will be single forever. Luckily, they were nice guys, but none of them wanted a relationship with me. I feel dirty by doing this, but I feel pressured to do this things in order to seem normal. I am tall, I play lots of sports, and I get excellent grades in school. Most of the people in my family have been in relationships at my age already. I feel like I will be single forever sometimes.\nTherapist: I think one of the first questions that springs to mind for me is, \"what's the rush?\" One of the most common distortions in our thinking is when we try to directly compare ourselves to others; while these people and even those in your family share a level of closeness to you they are not exactly like you - they don't see or feel things in the exact same way as you nor do they share the exact same perspective. It's important to be making choices for you and for your own desires and life goals. Once you stop comparing your happiness, you may find that you are already experiencing it and allow more of your guard to fall down.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-that-i-will-be-single-forever", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I be happy again? At school, it feels like I've lost all my friends, and I've been really weird with my sleeping patterns. I used to cut myself, and I really want to again, but I change in the locker rooms because I don\u2019t want anybody to see. I get ticked off easy and overreact. At night, I\u2019m very depressed and listen to sad music and all that sort of stuff. Please help me. I just want to be happy again, and I feel like I\u2019m starting to fake a smile at school.\nTherapist: As silly as it may sound, making sure that we are getting the right amount of *restful* sleep is very important when we are feeling low. I know you feel that you may be losing your friendships, but what are the facts that have led to this belief? In regards to your coping behaviours at night, it sounds very isolating and also very silenced. One of the other recommendations I would make would be to try and journal about some of those thoughts and fears in order to release them in a positively cathartic way.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-happy-again", "topics": "Depression,Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: How do I become more confident and face social situations? For my whole life, I\u2019ve been very unconfident, insecure, and self-questioning. I'm super quiet because I'm scared of what people will think of me. I avoid all social situations as it causes me great anxiety. It makes it super hard for me at work as the other employees try to use me and walk all over me because I\u2019m too nice. It causes me depression and brings me down. I\u2019m in my early twenties, and I really need to create a better life for myself.\nTherapist: One of the greatest ways that we can promote ourselves s by learning how to assert ourselves. Despite what most people think of when they hear the word assertive, assertive communication is one of the best ways to manage interpersonal conflict as well as maintain personal boundaries. Once we become comfortable with acknowledging our boundaries, there is usually a follow-up whereby we realize that we have the right to those boundaries. One of the Workbooks that I have found to be very helpful is, \"The Assertiveness Workbook: How to Express your Ideas and Stand Up for Yourself at Work and in Relationships\" by Randy J Paterson.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-become-more-confident-and-face-social-situations", "topics": "Anxiety,Self-esteem,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I be sure that I'm not choosing my relationship out of fear of being alone? I'm scared that I am with this man so I won't be alone. He should be with somebody who deserves him if this is the case, and I don\u2019t want to hurt him.\nTherapist: While not wanting to be alone may not be the best reason to be in a relationship, it is probably more common and normal a reason than you think. I suggest that you talk about this open-heartedly with each other. The idea of being afraid of being alone sounds like an honest starting place. The communication is likely to shine light on deepening connection for BOTH OF YOU.In the meantime, your idea that you don't deserve him is rooted in a \"core lie\" that you are telling yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-sure-that-i-m-not-choosing-my-relationship-out-of-fear-of-being-alone", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I have a better relationship with my mom? My mom and I have been fighting a lot now, and I just want a good relationship with her.\nTherapist: The best way to work on a relationship is for both people to engage with the problem and start communicating with each other more effectively. One of the hardest things about this, however, is getting both people within the relationship to recognize that they are both responsible for the successes and failures within the relationship and remove all the all-or-nothing blame. The best style of communication is open and asking for clarification; why not try asking your mother why this particular fight/situation is eliciting such an angry response. Often, the simple act of expressing that we don't understand the other person's point of view can open the doors to better levels of communication.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-better-relationship-with-my-mom", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I'm worried that I will be single forever. Luckily, they were nice guys, but none of them wanted a relationship with me. I feel dirty by doing this, but I feel pressured to do this things in order to seem normal. I am tall, I play lots of sports, and I get excellent grades in school. Most of the people in my family have been in relationships at my age already. I feel like I will be single forever sometimes.\nTherapist: It is very hard to want a loving relationship, and either see or imagine all around you, the great times other couples are having. Your post sounds like you're being true to yourself and honoring who you are really, by developing clear standards of what you'd expect from a relationship. Probably very unlikely that a young woman who would like a relationship, will never have one. Maybe the young men in your school are not yet emotionally mature enough to know how to see and appreciate you. Even though it may be hard, have patience with bringing in someone who is good for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-that-i-will-be-single-forever", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can my boyfriend forgive me when I can't forgive myself? In the past, our relationship was difficult and frustrating. We stayed together because we love each other and wanted to make it work. I used to party a lot, and several times I got into situations where I would end up kissing someone else. These situations were never more than just kissing. I love him so much and want to work things out too, but I'm having a difficult time understanding how he can forgive me. I'm overwhelmed with feelings of guilt and unworthiness.\nTherapist: Hi Cerritos,This is an interesting twist because it's more common for the person in your position to want to move forward, and for the person who was wronged to struggle with forgiveness. Your sense of worthlessness seems out of proportion to the mistakes you made. Did something bad happen that you thought was your fault? There is a younger person inside you waiting to be forgiven for something they weren't entirely responsible for. Forgiving doesn't mean \"it was okay\"; forgiving simply means that it happened, that you can't erase it, and that you don't want to carry it around or punish yourself for it anymore. You have done many things here that you can feel proud of!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-my-boyfriend-forgive-me-when-i-can-t-forgive-myself", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope or motivate myself without pain. When I'm not cutting, I'm drinking. When I try healthy outlets such as exercise, I end up running myself down into an asthma attack. From weapons, to words, I can't help but self harm. What am I supposed to do, how do I stop this cycle? I don't know how else to cope or motivate myself without pain.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are feeling helpless and out of control, you are concerned about your behavior, and at the same time you feel compelled to continue it. In working with a therapist, you may be able to get insight into what is motivating these behaviors, develop strategies for taking care of yourself, and get a stronger sense of who you are motivated to be when you are your authentic self.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-or-motivate-myself-without-pain", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Why do I crave depression? It's not entirely true to say I enjoy being sad, but I always find a way to feel that way. I listen to sad music, read tragic stories, and, in a twisted way, like how bad it makes me feel. I focus on negative aspects of my life even if they aren't legitimate or I just make it seem negative.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are noticing that you are drawn towards sad and negative content and it's hard to understand why. This may sound counter-intuitive, but sometimes we do things that on the surface may look problematic (or even cause us some real problems) because it serves us in some unseen way. One thing I would be wondering about is what is the unseen benefit of seeking out sad and negative content? I'd also be wondering what your relationship is to other feelings. These are things you may benefit from exploring with a competent therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-crave-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: I have an ex-boyfriend who just lies about everything. It has come to the point where he has gone through several group of friends. He'll always give a homeless person all his change no matter what. He takes him out to the movies and plays video games with him. He drives me to school and work every day and picks me up\u2014just basically the small things that add up to the fact that he's not totally a horrible human being.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have some ambivalent feelings towards your ex-boyfriend that are difficult to sort out. You notice that there are both desirable and undesirable things about him, and this is true of everyone to one degree or another. One question that I would have for you is, are you satisfied with your relationship with him as it currently stands? Are you happy with the boundaries between the two of you, or would you like them to be different? Negotiating through conflict and establishing different boundaries are definitely things you could work on with the help of a therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-my-ex-boyfriend-a-pathological-liar", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: The love of my life wants to try getting back together with her child's father. After that, I slept at her house every night for almost two weeks. Then one day, she went to her family\u2019s house on Thanksgiving and everything changed. Then about two weeks later, we finally get together one night and we were so hot for each other (in love, not just sex), but she confessed that the reason for the sudden distance was that the father of her very young child told her he wants to get back together and this totally messed with her. She had told me all about him previously, and it is definite that she has little to no attraction to him, but she would do this putting herself in misery again for her child.\nTherapist: Your description of the relationship so far, is that you are feeling a lot of emotional pain, alongside a deep attraction for this woman. This sounds more descriptive of your relationship than that it is a loving one. Try distinguishing your wishes to be loved by this woman with what actually is taking place in everyday life. Being aware of how much love you'd like to give and receive, is valuable self-knowledge. It sounds like this is its main value in your life, not that it is sustainable in reality.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/the-love-of-my-life-wants-to-try-getting-back-together-with-her-child-s-father", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I told my family doctor yesterday, that I am hoarding my Ativan pills. Is he legally required to tell my psychiatrist or therapist? I have major depression, severe, PTSD, anxiety disorder, and personality disorder. I had an appointment with my doctor. I was very upset, and I shared with him about that particular drug.\nTherapist: Your doctor might be required to tell your psychiatrist - especially if your doctor is concerned about your safety. It was definitely a good thing that you told your primary care physician about what is going on. I know that must have been difficult to talk about with him. By having that conversation, you are helping\u00a0your primary care physician and your psychiatrist work together to best support your health.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-told-my-family-doctor-yesterday-that-i-am-hoarding-my-ativan-pills-is-he-legally-required-to-tell-my-psychiatrist-or-therapist", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: Can implanted thoughts be reversed at all? An organization admitted to implanting thoughts in my head with technologies. The study was to implant a fantasy other people are having, but to me, it's a nightmare. I lost my kids, my job, and all that. I was an unwilling participant. I no longer trust a therapist.  I'm too afraid to go under hypnosis or anything.\nTherapist: Given your experience of being imposed upon against your will, and all the personal and professional loss that has come since, your fear of what will happen if you undergo treatment and trust a therapist is understandable. I understand that working with a therapist sounds risky, given your experiences, and at the same time a good therapist may be a beneficial resource in helping you deal with the intrusive thoughts, cope with and alleviate the stress that they create, and perhaps even lead to the alleviation of the thoughts themselves. A therapist may also be able to help you discover strategies to work towards any goals you have around reconnecting with your children and working again. You may even be able to find some of these resources at a library, if affordability is an obstacle.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-implanted-thoughts-be-reversed-at-all", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: I'm an early 20 something year-old virgin, and my boyfriend is in his early 20s with kids. He wasn't use to dating a virgin and broke up with me three times because he wasn't sure. I think about it all over again when I see her. He says he's in love with me, and with the last time he cheated, it didn't feel right, and that's when he knew he had to stop because his feelings were for me. If I let him go, I don't want to be sad about it being that we work together.\nTherapist: Sorry to hear about all the stress in the relationship. You're on the right track by knowing and sticking with your own standards of what qualifies as acceptable behavior by your boyfriend. Since he was the one who broke your trust, he is one in the position of earning back your trust. This is always a basic formula for couple's therapy in which there has been infidelity. For example, some people who are getting over being cheated on, would like knowing details about the affair person, some people want to see the phone of the one who cheated. As results unfold, you will feel clearer on the direction your relationship is naturally taking.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-let-my-boyfriend-go", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I have experienced cycles of depression for the past four years, and it hits me harder every time it comes back. This past time, it was extremely debilitating, so I went on Wellbutrin. I could feel the effects of the medicine after the first week. A month and a half later, I decided that my depression was being caused by my own unwillingness to move forward and address my behaviors and thoughts that were keeping me in a place of despair. Is it better to continue letting time and good habits work out the remaining depression or should I go back on the medicine?\nTherapist: Deciding whether or not psychiatric medicine is a good option can be complicated, as you have noticed, and only a person who is licensed to prescribe can give you medical advice regarding medications. While there is sometimes relief from symptoms from medication, as you have pointed out, there are often negative side effects as well. Are you seeing a therapist or attending any therapeutic or supportive group? While there are many things that one can do on their own to work through challenges such as depression, psychotherapy has been shown time and again in research to be highly effective and sometimes having a relationship with a caring, competent professional who understands depression and ways of helping can make a huge difference.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-go-back-on-my-medicine", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Can my marriage be saved? My husband and I have been together since high school. We have been married going on for nearly ten years, and we have three beautiful children. A few weeks ago, my husband decided he need some time apart and moved over to his dad\u2019s for a while. He comes home to see the kids and acts like there is not too much wrong. Can this marriage be saved or is it too late? He said he would go to counseling, so I don't think he has given up.\nTherapist: While it would be impossible for me to say whether your marriage can be saved it sounds like you are both willing to give it a try and to get professional support. With appropriate professional support for your relationship a lot is possible. I'm not familiar with the resources available in Jackson but I'm sure there are some good local couple therapists and there may be some agencies that specialize in couple counselling and family therapy. I commend your willingness to put effort into creating the strong loving relationship that you want for both of your sakes and of course for your children. Wishing you and your family all the best on your journey of healing and discovery.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-my-marriage-be-saved", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: The love of my life wants to try getting back together with her child's father. After that, I slept at her house every night for almost two weeks. Then one day, she went to her family\u2019s house on Thanksgiving and everything changed. Then about two weeks later, we finally get together one night and we were so hot for each other (in love, not just sex), but she confessed that the reason for the sudden distance was that the father of her very young child told her he wants to get back together and this totally messed with her. She had told me all about him previously, and it is definite that she has little to no attraction to him, but she would do this putting herself in misery again for her child.\nTherapist: It is tough falling in love and not being able to dive fully because of complications on the other side. It sounds to me that you are doing exactly what you need to be doing by taking \"care of myself\" while the rest sorts itself out. While I admire your desire and courage to stay friends - the \"extreme pain\" that you mentioned may make this too challenging and at odds with your taking care of yourself. Since there is no commitment on her end to give it a shot with you I would make sure that you really honour your own feelings about what feels right to you so that you don't end up feeling strung along or resentful.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/the-love-of-my-life-wants-to-try-getting-back-together-with-her-child-s-father", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm worried that I will be single forever. Luckily, they were nice guys, but none of them wanted a relationship with me. I feel dirty by doing this, but I feel pressured to do this things in order to seem normal. I am tall, I play lots of sports, and I get excellent grades in school. Most of the people in my family have been in relationships at my age already. I feel like I will be single forever sometimes.\nTherapist: I think that every person who has been single for any extended period of time has felt the same worries - myself included. Since relationships are so important to us we fear not having them and being single. While some people may judge an adult who is a virgin - others will respect your choices and feel even more attracted to you because of your choices. Since expectations vary and we can't be happy if we are always comparing ourselves to other people, we need to ultimately trust that being who we are and building a loving relationship with ourselves is the key to meeting someone who will cherish us for all the ways that we are special and unique, virgin or not.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-that-i-will-be-single-forever", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can my boyfriend forgive me when I can't forgive myself? In the past, our relationship was difficult and frustrating. We stayed together because we love each other and wanted to make it work. I used to party a lot, and several times I got into situations where I would end up kissing someone else. These situations were never more than just kissing. I love him so much and want to work things out too, but I'm having a difficult time understanding how he can forgive me. I'm overwhelmed with feelings of guilt and unworthiness.\nTherapist: So wonderful to have a boyfriend who is able to understand and forgive you. What do you think that he sees in you that allows him to do that? Does he see someone who despite hurtful choices is a good person committed to being a loving respectful partner? Regardless of the reasons, we all make mistakes and imperfection does not make someone less loveable - it just makes them human. Can you help him to feel loved and safe in the relationship? When you are feeling ashamed of your behaviours - try to imagine extending that scared part of you the same love and acceptance that you might extend to other people who have made mistakes.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-my-boyfriend-forgive-me-when-i-can-t-forgive-myself", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: I'm worried that I will be single forever. Luckily, they were nice guys, but none of them wanted a relationship with me. I feel dirty by doing this, but I feel pressured to do this things in order to seem normal. I am tall, I play lots of sports, and I get excellent grades in school. Most of the people in my family have been in relationships at my age already. I feel like I will be single forever sometimes.\nTherapist: Hi Winters, I'm so glad you wrote, because I think there are a lot of young women experiencing the exact same thing. Young women have always gotten crazy mixed messages about what they're supposed to be. The stupid part is that research tells us that young men are also impacted negatively by this cultural norm that values sex and not relationship; they feel guilt, and loneliness. Your value and power cannot ever be found in whether a man wants you, whether you turn his eye, or how he treats you. You don't have to have any kind of sex until you're ready, and that makes you brave and smart, not weird. I hope you talk to someone soon and find out that your feelings are normal.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-that-i-will-be-single-forever", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Why am I constantly angry? I don't know what's with me. I'm almost constantly angry. Even when I'm happy, I still feel anger inside me. When I acknowledge it, it ruins my mood and takes over. I get angry at the littlest things. Even if I think someone said something they didn't, it infuriates me. Something perfectly normal can make me go off. When my anger flares up, I get a terrible pain in my chest that lasts for a while. It's like there is a fire constantly burning in my body, and anger is gasoline.\nTherapist: Hi Nashville, I'm glad you want this to be different. We develop ways of avoiding these vulnerable emotions, and anger is one way of doing that. So, when someone looks at you in a certain way, or says something, you'd rather be angry than feel powerless, or unimportant (or whatever your kryptonite feeling is). You fail to recognise that the problem is not the look on that person's face, or the shoe that someone left in front of the door...it's that you can't stand feeling something and you want to avoid it like you want to stamp your foot out if it's on fire. I suggest finding a therapist to work with.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-constantly-angry", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: How am I supposed to feel when I forgive someone? My mom made a lot of mistakes a couple years back, and I can't seem to forgive her. I want to say that it's okay, but I can't. I feel like even if I did forgive her, I wouldn't be able to say it to her face.\nTherapist: Hi Cleveland, I think I get what you're feeling. You're scared that if you forgive your mom, that would mean it wasn't so bad, or she'll think it's okay to do it again, or she won't realize how hurt you are. Forgiveness doesn't have to mean what she did was okay. \"You can forgive your mom for yourself, not for her. Your ability to draw boundaries with her in the present is your biggest protector; let her know in the present what hurts you, and notice her responses.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-am-i-supposed-to-feel-when-i-forgive-someone", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Should I tell my kids that Santa is real after their dad told them he is not? My ex-husband told my two adolescents that Santa doesn't exist on the day before Christmas. They are desperate to hold on to the magic of Christmas, but I don't know if it's right for me to lie to them and tell them that Santa is real. I don't want to let them down and make them lose out on those memories, but I also don't want to lose their trust.\nTherapist: Well Boise, the cat's out of the bag now, isn't it? I love that you want to help your kids keep the magic of Christmas. They must want that too if they still believe in Santa into their teen years, which is unusual, I believe. I wonder if they had already figured it out anyway?But they know now, and your ex had the right to tell them if he felt it was best. Really, who says they have to stop believing in Santa? Santa is very real as a spirit of surprise, generosity and love.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-tell-my-kids-that-santa-is-real-after-their-dad-told-them-he-is-not", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my guy to fall back in love with me? I broke up with him three weeks ago because I felt that he needed to be more respectful. He has since had a rebound relationship. He says he loves and misses me but refuses to see me. He says it's going to be too difficult to see me. Every time we talk, it feels like I'm being pushy to see him. He used to be so madly in love with me, but now, it seems like he couldn\u2019t care less. I think I'm running him away.\nTherapist: Hi Kansas,I think your first instinct was good; you broke up with him. You deserve respect, but right now you're not acting as if you deserve it when you push to see him as he's moving on with a new relationship. Do you think he's going to be any different with her? I hope you gather support from others and move on in hope and strength for your own future.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-guy-to-fall-back-in-love-with-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How am I supposed to feel when I forgive someone? My mom made a lot of mistakes a couple years back, and I can't seem to forgive her. I want to say that it's okay, but I can't. I feel like even if I did forgive her, I wouldn't be able to say it to her face.\nTherapist: How someone feels when they forgive another, is at peace with themselves and their understanding of what went wrong, who was responsible for what in the situation, and clarity on their own motivation, actions, emotions including pain, regret, resentment, sadness. These steps ideally allow a new door to open in order to develop new paths in the existing relationship or accept that this will not be possible due to either person's way of handling themselves. I commend you on being truthful with yourself about yourself. Finding patience with the unpredictable amount of time needed to thoroughly examine all the details of the incidents you mention, sometimes is a frustration of its own. Keep up your good work of knowing your own life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-am-i-supposed-to-feel-when-i-forgive-someone", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Do I leave my cheating husband or share him with someone? But we then ended up back together and worked it out for a while until I got pregnant with our second child. Being that he loves me too, he wanted to be with the both of us at the same time. He feels like my insecurities and trust issues are what pushed him closer towards her, and that no matter what he did to do right, I would still accuse him. Both of these decisions are really hard to make because I feel like whether I stay or go, my heart will still be torn apart.\nTherapist: Hi Jayuya, I'm struggling in this moment with my own biases. He makes excuses and blames you for these behaviours and trains you to do the same. He demonstrates many controlling and abusive behaviours. And now, in an attempt to manipulate and silence you, he wants to have his cake and eat it too and suggests you should share him? There aren't many crumbs of this cake left for you, are there?So, my biases about respect don't make me want to rescue you or tell you what to do; I can't do that, and I don't think either of those things will help you. I'd like to ask you some questions though...Are you happy?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-leave-my-cheating-husband-or-share-him-with-someone", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My wife no longer wants sex. I crave attention, companionship, and sex. She has had a hysterectomy, and she has a bad knee.\nTherapist: Hi Hampton,Although I'd bet your wife also wants the attention and companionship, it seems that there are a few barriers in your sexual relationship right now. This is a very common issue; two people with different sexual drives or needs. In the meantime, you can try a few things: have compassion for your wife. She's in pain and this may preoccupy her. Help her to see that you're not just angry, but lonely and hurt; it might affect how you see yourself as a man. Find out what your wife's wishes and ideas are.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-no-longer-wants-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Should I just move on from my demanding girlfriend? My girlfriend and I have broken up and gotten back together numerous times in the past two years. We recently just broke up again last night on New Year\u2019s Eve. I do love her and care about her and her children a lot, but she seems really demanding as far as what she deserves from a man. It makes me feel like crap because I cannot give her everything that she wants. Is that a normal thing that women want, or should I just move on already?\nTherapist: Love is not enough to keep a relationship together. The people need to get along happily too. Let's start with knowing more about your happiness in being with your partner. The frequent break ups happen for a reason. You state a few very clear reasons to not continue this relationship, such as \"feeling like crap\" and not liking that your girlfriend hopes her \u00a0partner will feel afraid to leave her. Sometimes men aren't sure whether following their instinct is a right action to take. Also, hoping a partner will fear losing them, shows a wish to control a person.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-just-move-on-from-my-demanding-girlfriend", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why won\u2019t my boyfriend for almost two years talk about our future together when he says he\u2019s in love with me? nan\nTherapist: The good news is you're aware of what you'd like from your relationship. The possible less good news, is that your boyfriend's ideas for the relationship are not similar to yours. You sound ready to find out his reality in order to compare it with yours. Sometimes people are afraid that the answer they'll hear will disappoint. What if he was being shy and hesitant to tell you his wish of being together with you for many years?Either way the answer turns out, you will gain as a person by appreciating your own need for peace of mind by knowing clearly what your future with this man will be like.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-won-t-my-boyfriend-for-almost-two-years-talk-about-our-future-together-when-he-says-he-s-in-love-with-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I manage my anger? I am so angry. I feel like the arguments with my parents have caused me so much anxiety and stress, and I don't know what to do. I want to sit down with a psychologist, but I cannot afford one, nor do I have my own health insurance. I can feel myself starting to get violent. I throw things of value when I start to get mad. I have punched holes in my wall. I can feel my aggression getting worse.\nTherapist: First off, it is great that you recognize that some changes need to be made. There are several strategies that you can try to\u00a0help control your anger, but the\u00a0ones that\u00a0I would recomend first are the following:1. Since\u00a0arguing with\u00a0them is a great source of anger for you, learning more effective ways of communicating with them will likely be of great benefit. Validate what you hear your parents say in order to allow them to know that you understand their point of view.2. Stop any negative thoughts in their tracks. Often times when we get upset, we catastrophize and do not see things clearly.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-manage-my-anger", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: Why won\u2019t my boyfriend for almost two years talk about our future together when he says he\u2019s in love with me? nan\nTherapist: There are a few possibilities that might be keeping your boyfriend from talking about the future, but the best way to find out for certain is to ask him. If your desire is to have a permanent relationship with your boyfriend, two years should be plenty of time for him to determine whether or not he also wants this and if not yet, he should be able to give you a reason why. Such fears might be grounded in past failed relationships, past history of abuse or neglect, \u00a0or just pure selfishness and a related fear of what they might have to give up in a relationship. Another common reason for people to avoid talking about permanency is because there are things in the relationship that they feel may need to change before the relationship becomes more committed.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-won-t-my-boyfriend-for-almost-two-years-talk-about-our-future-together-when-he-says-he-s-in-love-with-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop abusing alcohol? I have bipolar II disorder, I'm addicted to alcohol and weed, and I'm hopeless. I keep drinking even though it's harming myself and others.\nTherapist: The first step to change is to admit that you have a problem that is in need of change. Frequently our problems keep us in denial. The best course of treatment for you is to treat all of these problems together. Alcohol detox can be very dangerous so it is important that you do this under the supervision of a medical provider; preferably someone who specializes in addiction. I really recommend an inpatient stay for at least 30 days for anyone who is dealing with addiction, whether combined with mental health issues or not.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-abusing-alcohol", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend has a child he gets every other weekend. Every time she leaves, he gets into these funks like when his mom died. When she\u2019s here, she\u2019s disrespectful, and his answer is \u201cWell, I don\u2019t know what to tell you.\u201d She swears and talks back, and he laughs. He and her mom have been apart for three years, and he blames her behavior on that and her being so young. We never have adult time when she\u2019s not here.\nTherapist: Hi Lockport, Building a relationship when there are already children involved is very tricky. You don't tell us whether you live together or not. A bottom line for me is you don't tell someone else how to parent. Even if you have good ideas or you completely disagree, or you think you see something that he's not seeing, it's simply not for you to interfere there. Is it possible that your real struggle is about whether you're ready to be in a relationship with a man whose priority is his child?You have a voice, and it's great to offer support and ideas and let him know how you feel.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-leave-my-boyfriend", "topics": "Relationships,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do I manage my anger? I am so angry. I feel like the arguments with my parents have caused me so much anxiety and stress, and I don't know what to do. I want to sit down with a psychologist, but I cannot afford one, nor do I have my own health insurance. I can feel myself starting to get violent. I throw things of value when I start to get mad. I have punched holes in my wall. I can feel my aggression getting worse.\nTherapist: I'm sorry you have so many arguments with your parents. Everyone likes feeling loved by their parent. The real question is knowing what feels like its being hurt inside of you. See if your area has a family service agency in it. One possibility is to tell your parents that you'd like starting therapy because of feeling so much stress from the family arguing. They may very well be surprised to learn of your maturity in assessing your level of stress and be willing to make a positive contribution to this by offering to authorize therapy through their health insurance.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-manage-my-anger", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: My child urinated in his mother's drink. Just wondering if this is a deviant act, and if I should be concerned for him. He isn\u2019t quite 10.\nTherapist: Well it's certainly unusual, and potentially could be cause for alarm. It's a passive aggressive act if done intentionally, so I would wonder if this child is trying to say something. I think without any context, however, or sense of whether there are other signs of disturbance, it's impossible to say what's going on. If there are other signs of distress or very unusual behaviours, you might bring the child to someone who can assess him properly.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-child-urinated-in-his-mother-s-drink", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop myself from making poor choices and hurting the one I love? I've been in a relationship for over a year. I heard he's married, but he says he's not. Everything is very up and down; there's no trust. This time, I made a huge mistake: I drank too much, and I cheated on him.\nTherapist: Let me get this straight...you're in a 'relationship', but he might be married. The short answer is that there is too much wrong here for this therapist to try and fix it. Relationships don't heal us and they don't help us grow up. We have to be mature and stable enough to love someone before it's going to work. I'd recommend you focus on yourself alone for a while.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-myself-from-making-poor-choices-and-hurting-the-one-i-love", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I can't leave my negative environment without leaving behind my fianc\u00e9. My fianc\u00e9 and I have been in a relationship for two years. My mother and I have an awful relationship that is completely unbearable most of the time. She has made it clear that she wants me gone. Recently, I was talking to my father who lives in a different state. I explained to him the situation I am in with my mother, and he said he would like for me, my fianc\u00e9, and our son to come live with him and his wife. I do not want my son to be in this environment with constant arguing and negativity any longer.\nTherapist: Hi Bethlehem,You have a big decision to make. I appreciate your fianc\u00e9's need to stay close to his child and be a stand-up dad, and I am glad that you know your son needs an emotionally safe place. I get that you want your dad to take care of all of you, but maybe it's time to take responsibility for your own future and start building it independently of either parent. I say that without knowing how old you are, but if you have a child and a two year relationship, you basically have declared your independence anyway.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-can-t-leave-my-negative-environment-without-leaving-behind-my-fianc", "topics": "Relationships,Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Why won\u2019t my boyfriend for almost two years talk about our future together when he says he\u2019s in love with me? nan\nTherapist: This happens quite a bit...a couple will be very much in love, but with time it becomes more and more clear that there is a barrier to moving forward to deeper intimacy and commitment. For you, it's simple...you love him and want to plan a future. His fears have nothing to do with you; they are based on his own emotional history. If he recognises this barrier and wants to change it, he can try therapy to address his emotional barriers. So, do some thinking first, then go to him, not in anger (he's just being himself, after all and anger won't help), but with your dilemma. \"", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-won-t-my-boyfriend-for-almost-two-years-talk-about-our-future-together-when-he-says-he-s-in-love-with-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I open up to someone? Ever since my ex-boyfriend and I broke up, I can't seem to get close to anyone else. I know I'm completely over him, but I just can't break down my walls and let someone new into my life.\nTherapist: Each time we have a break-up we are a bit more in touch with how much is at stake in this whole love and relationship business. Who you partner with long-term is a big decision and it determines 90% of our happiness in life. First, think about the lessons you learned from this past relationship. or \"I'm going to get hurt again\", or \"I can't trust myself\"? What is the evidence that I am lovable... that there are safe, good people out there... that I can trust myself? I hope you will find yourself back on track eventually, with time. :)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-open-up-to-someone", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my wife to forgive me? I didn't trust my wife when I found out that she had a new guy friend that she was texting and calling. I investigated him before I found out that he was gay and that there was nothing going on. Now all my wife and I do is fight about trust.\nTherapist: Being unable to trust your significant other certainly can cause one to feel unsettled. Has your spouse ever done anything questionable that would cause you to not trust her? If so, then it will take time and some work to gain the trust back. Ask yourself if you have valid reasons to not trust her. Instead of arguing, try and communicate how you're feeling and let her know that resolving this trust issue will be a top priority for you so that you can focus on other aspects of your relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-wife-to-forgive-me", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I am very aware of the problem and try to talk myself out of it all the time, but I never seem to shake the habits. I try to think of what it is doing to me and my future, but no matter what, I keep creating excuses for myself to continue the procrastination. All I'm ever left with is regrets and a low grade. I've always been a straight-A student, but now I'm getting C's and F's, and it hurts me to know that I am way better than that.\nTherapist: I am sorry to hear that you are going through such a tough time. It sounds to me like you are suffering from depression to some degree. Have you seen a therapist or talked to anyone about your problems? Additionally,\u00a0keep a\u00a0journal to write down how you are feeling and what ideas\u00a0you have to help\u00a0feel better. Once you start feeling better about yourself and your life, your grades should naturally begin to improve, as you will have more motivation and energy to focus on that particular area.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-rid-of-my-laziness", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: My ex-boyfriend put himself on a dating website because he thought I wasn't interested. Since then, he has still been in contact with me every day. We spent some time together over the holidays, but then I was gone for New Years with family. You have helped me tons this past year and I am glad you are in my life. I didn\u2019t realize you were still interested in dating. Also, is it better to say that I want him in my life or that I want him as part of my life?\nTherapist: It sounds like there is a bit of confusion regarding how you two feel about each other. Do you know what type of relationship you want with him? A friendship only,\u00a0casual dating,\u00a0or an exclusive relationship? I would encourage you to first figure that out and then communicate to him how you are feeling. Ask him to be honest with you about how he feels and what he wants from your relationship as well. Be mentally prepared\u00a0for a variety of responses from him\u00a0so that there are no major surprises. By clearing the air and learning what your own and each other's desires are, you can then move forward with a plan.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-ex-boyfriend-put-himself-on-a-dating-website-because-he-thought-i-wasn-t-interested", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I am very aware of the problem and try to talk myself out of it all the time, but I never seem to shake the habits. I try to think of what it is doing to me and my future, but no matter what, I keep creating excuses for myself to continue the procrastination. All I'm ever left with is regrets and a low grade. I've always been a straight-A student, but now I'm getting C's and F's, and it hurts me to know that I am way better than that.\nTherapist: Possibly laziness is not the true problem and is only what appears as the problem. Quite possibly and more likely, the particular conditions of your current life are not ones that are optimal for feeling good about yourself and your involvements. If you're not able to notice any good purpose, then you may be mistaking \"laziness\" for a significant amount of stress in your life. Not feeling enough support in your life, financial uncertainty, arguments w people who are close in your life, feeling misunderstood overall or by particular people, all are possibilities. Good luck in learning more about who you are!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-rid-of-my-laziness", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my wife to forgive me? I didn't trust my wife when I found out that she had a new guy friend that she was texting and calling. I investigated him before I found out that he was gay and that there was nothing going on. Now all my wife and I do is fight about trust.\nTherapist: Instead of fighting about trust, is it possible for you and your wife to talk with other about areas which upset each of you?Whenever feelings are hurt, knowing what exactly is problematic and being heard and understood by the partner, goes a long way to building trust. These type of discussions are hard to have, and especially for the first time. A lot of emotions arise and often people lose their conversation focus from this. If you and your wife have a tough time opening up to each other, consider scheduling time with a couples therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-wife-to-forgive-me", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I'm disgusted by my own fetish. I have an overwhelming desire to watch my wife have sex with another man. I talked to her about it, and she said she will do it for me. The idea excites me to no end, but I don\u2019t want to because it disgusts me. How can I stop wanting it, or should I just give into it and do it? I\u2019ve been struggling for years with this. It won\u2019t go away. By the way, I am in my mid 30s and my wife is in her mid 40s.\nTherapist: Try to understand your own ambivalence to having your wish fulfilled. Since you and your wife are in a relationship, the sex she will have with another man will affect emotions in both you and your wife. I suggest you and her prepare emotionally before you both go ahead with the sexual arrangement,By anticipating any jealousy or feeling helpless or out of control, or in control, since it's your wish being fulfilled, all the feelings you and her are able to expect, you'll be more prepared for the actual emotions from the episode, which may also resolve your conflicted feelings about creating the event. There are a lot of unknowns in the situation you're considering.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-disgusted-by-my-own-fetish", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Why does the voice in my head never stop? From the moment I wake up, I hear what I think is my voice in my head. Even now, I hear it saying every word I\u2019m thinking. When I lay down to sleep, I think of weird and crazy things, and the voice will never stop talking. I don\u2019t know if it\u2019s me thinking. It never stops. I\u2019ll lay in my bed for hours just thinking about weird stuff. I should mention that I talk to myself a lot: mostly in my head, but out loud as well.\nTherapist: Does the voice in your head sound different or the same as your own voice when you talk to people and go about your usual daily life?There is a great big difference in the type of problem you're having if you feel the voice belongs to someone besides who you are. If you are hearing \"self-talk\" of turning over in your mind what goes on in your life, reflecting on alternatives either of what you would like to have done differently in a certain matter, or anticipating what you will do in a future situation, then the problem of the voice in your head may be from a high degree of stress or uncertainty in your life right now. I would be as concerned about the voice in your head as I would be about the actual content of what the voice is talking about with you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-does-the-voice-in-my-head-never-stop", "topics": NaN}, {"text": "User: How to help my best friend get over a break up? I'm a female freshman in high school, and this question is for my male best friend. He has been dating a really sweet senior girl for a month or two. He is convinced that they are in love, and maybe they are, but I don't really believe him. He seems really torn up about it, and I want to know what to say to him and how to help him once she leaves.\nTherapist: First off, I think it is great that you are willing and able to help out your friend with issues regarding his current relationship, despite the fact that you have feelings for him. Know that you won't be able to heal the pain he feels when his girlfriend leaves but you can be a friend to him by simply listening, validating his feelings,\u00a0and understanding. Regarding your question about being there for him without wanting to hook up....I'm not sure if that is possible. Be careful that you take care of yourself and don't jeopardize your own happiness while trying to help him with his issues.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-to-help-my-best-friend-get-over-a-break-up", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I\u2019ve been separated from my husband for six months and he still has not filed for divorce. My husband and I got into a huge dispute. He said he wanted a divorce, and I left. I still come home a lot and see my kids, and he has not filed yet even though he still said he is. What does that mean for our marriage?\nTherapist: In situations like this, in most cases, he probably will not fill anytime soon. It's more of the fact that he isn't ready to give that life yet... Now if you probably pressured him about it then yes, he would probably give in.. But if it hasn't been a big issue anymore or something you guys aren't talking about, then right now.. Everything is on a hold.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-ve-been-separated-from-my-husband-for-six-months-and-he-still-has-not-filed-for-divorce", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with flashbacks of trauma? I was violently raped by another women who was my friend of 13 years. I\u2019m having bad flashbacks. I\u2019m scared to sleep because I see it in my dreams. I don't leave the house because I have panic attacks.\nTherapist: There are therapy programs which help people to gradually feel more at ease so that daily living does not feel so frightening. Once you feel stronger and more secure from such a behavioral program, you'll be able to sleep more peacefully and leave the house whenever necessary to do your regular life. Then, you will be able to open and clear the deep emotional hurt that always occurs from being violated by a trusted friend.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-flashbacks-of-trauma", "topics": "Trauma,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How come I feel ugly? I'm in my early 20s. I\u2019ve been married once, and he cheated on me. Ever since then, I've felt ugly no matter what. I'm engaged, and I still feel ugly. I don't like to take pictures of myself.\nTherapist: Sounds as though you're taking the blame for the bad actions of your former husband. He did an ugly action, and instead of feeling only your own emotions in response to being cheated on, you are holding his ugly behavior within you and feeling it. Does this sound like a possible explanation of why your feeling of ugliness started after the cheating incident?You may start feeling better by looking within your own heart for the full effects of having been hurt. As you address all the emotional pain you've lived through, the feeling of ugliness may drop out all of its own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-come-i-feel-ugly", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Why does the voice in my head never stop? From the moment I wake up, I hear what I think is my voice in my head. Even now, I hear it saying every word I\u2019m thinking. When I lay down to sleep, I think of weird and crazy things, and the voice will never stop talking. I don\u2019t know if it\u2019s me thinking. It never stops. I\u2019ll lay in my bed for hours just thinking about weird stuff. I should mention that I talk to myself a lot: mostly in my head, but out loud as well.\nTherapist: First let's make sure that the voice is not one you hear outside your head and that it is not giving you commands. Then there is the COGNITIVE aspect of your question. This is the idea of recognizing how the thoughts are distorted and to challenge them rationally. And your comments that the thoughts are \"weird\" or \"crazy\" are arbitrary judgments that you are making against yourself. I evan have a chart (p. 57) which shows the different characteristics of the \"worldly voice\" and the \"sacred voice\" inside. Learn more about Living Yes at www.LivingYes.org.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-does-the-voice-in-my-head-never-stop", "topics": NaN}, {"text": "User: Can a past therapist disclose information to a current therapist that you are seeing? nan\nTherapist: Generally, the laws regarding confidentiality would require a past therapist to obtain your permission before disclosing any information about you to your current therapist. Depending on state law, there could be some exceptions to this general rule. For example, most states would allow your former therapist to provide information about you to your current therapist if he/she reasonably believed it would protect you or someone else from an imminent harm.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-a-past-therapist-disclose-information-to-a-current-therapist-that-you-are-seeing", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory,Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: I want to stop physically abusing my girlfriend. I have anger issues that have worsened over the years because I\u2019ve never dealt with my emotions. My anger has never been expressed physically until the past year. My girlfriend has had to endure these episodes. I love her, and I think I\u2019m about to lose her, if I already haven\u2019t. I throw things at her when I\u2019m angry, and sometimes I hit her.\nTherapist: Good for you for recognizing that a change has to be made quickly. If left unresolved, it will follow you into any relationship you have. I would suggest you take that step first. A therapist will help you explore the source of your anger and teach you new, adaptive\u00a0ways of dealing with your anger. Clear your mind of the problem and focus only on your breathing as you inhale slowly counting to four and exhale slowly counting to six.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-stop-physically-abusing-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Anger Management,Domestic Violence"}, {"text": "User: Should my step-daughters be told that their step-father has a child pornography addiction? My husband\u2019s ex-wife married a man who was charged with seven felony counts of pandering involving a minor. He, by his own admission, is addicted to child pornography. The ex-wife minimizes it by saying that he has \"repented.\" It is a constant strain on my husband, knowing that his girls are living with a man who is addicted to child pornography. My own therapist believes the girls should be told. The ex-wife says her therapist says the opposite.\nTherapist: Lorain, you're correct that your husband's ex-wife is (seriously) minimizing this problem. In my book, the safety of children trumps potentially insulting or hurting the feelings of adults. Of course the girls should be told, because they have the right to know. Their voice is not the only one I'm concerned about here though. If she decides to stay with him, the natural consequence of having a known perpetrator in your home is not having access to vulnerable children in that same home.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-my-step-daughters-be-told-that-their-step-father-has-a-child-pornography-addiction", "topics": "Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I want to stop physically abusing my girlfriend. I have anger issues that have worsened over the years because I\u2019ve never dealt with my emotions. My anger has never been expressed physically until the past year. My girlfriend has had to endure these episodes. I love her, and I think I\u2019m about to lose her, if I already haven\u2019t. I throw things at her when I\u2019m angry, and sometimes I hit her.\nTherapist: Hi Baton Rouge,I'm glad you're reaching out. but you're headed in the right direction. Please seek treatment for yourself immediately. Do you love her enough to leave the relationship while you address your issues? Are you brave enough to not lean on this relationship while you learn how to create a safe place for a partner?You have dangerous habits because you don't know how to manage your own emotional pain. This is potentially the first step to learning real respect; honouring her need for safety above your need for comfort.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-stop-physically-abusing-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Anger Management,Domestic Violence"}, {"text": "User: I don't feel a connection to my husband anymore. I'm feeling different towards my husband. I feel I am growing from the relationship. I have been with my husband for six years and married for almost five. I just don't feel that connection anymore. I feel nothing. I don't know why or if I'm just being irrational.\nTherapist: Thousands of people are having this same feeling right now. That sparkly feeling typically lasts a few years (long enough to procreate and keep the human race going), and then it wears off a bit, and you end up looking at each other thinking \"how come I don't feel the same anymore?\"Mostly (not always, and I'll get to that in a minute) all that this means is you've stopped doing all those loving things you used to do! Many things get in the way...children, jobs, but mostly complacency. People do grow and change and sometimes relationships don't fit anymore.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-feel-a-connection-to-my-husband-anymore", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Should my step-daughters be told that their step-father has a child pornography addiction? My husband\u2019s ex-wife married a man who was charged with seven felony counts of pandering involving a minor. He, by his own admission, is addicted to child pornography. The ex-wife minimizes it by saying that he has \"repented.\" It is a constant strain on my husband, knowing that his girls are living with a man who is addicted to child pornography. My own therapist believes the girls should be told. The ex-wife says her therapist says the opposite.\nTherapist: If the daughters are old & mature enough to understand substance abuse. They should be told for their own empowerment. KNOWLEDGE is their power of safety and protection.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-my-step-daughters-be-told-that-their-step-father-has-a-child-pornography-addiction", "topics": "Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Am I wrong because I don\u2019t want to sit on the same couch my wife had sex with another man on while we were still married? I decided to stay and work it out. I just don\u2019t want to sit on the couch. Other than that, I have been getting over the situation. I don't feel it is fair that she expects me to sit on that couch and won\u2019t leave me alone about it. I can move on and continue to love, laugh, and play with my wife. I just don't want to sit on that couch.\nTherapist: Houston, It's normal for this kind of thing to be a trigger, so I get why you don't want to sit on it, but to keep refusing keeps the affair alive. Am I to assume that you can't afford a new one? Ideally, she buys you a new couch, but it certainly would be a gesture of love for you to do it too and it will help you both move forward. t will be interesting to see if there's anything else that keeps the problem alive after the couch is long gone.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-wrong-because-i-don-t-want-to-sit-on-the-same-couch-my-wife-had-sex-with-another-man-on-while-we-were-still-married", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less anxious when dealing with my toddler? My toddler defies everything I say and doesn\u2019t see me as authoritative, so she says no about everything. I'd like to hear some ways I can work on not needing to feel so much in control all the time.\nTherapist: Feeling powerless is something parents are wise to get used to; there's a creature in the home whose job it is to find and use their power in the family and in the world. First, remind yourself that it's her job to learn what the rules are, and where her power is. Don't be so surprised when she wants it her way. Instead of opening her drawer and asking what she wants to wear, give her two choices. Instead of saying no, try \"as soon as the toys are picked up, we can have a snack\". Time is a useful tool not enough parents use.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-anxious-when-dealing-with-my-toddler", "topics": "Anxiety,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible to gain joy and prosperity in my relationship after years of unhappiness? There were times when we had nowhere else to go but sleep in the car outside a Walmart parking lot. After six months, we moved across the country only to live the same thing, and that's when the violence started. One afternoon, after a serious argument, he got into his truck and threatened to leave me. We both haven't been able to let go of that deep connection that we still have and that has been damaged so badly. Is there hope for a better future together?\nTherapist: Hi Winters, I learned a long time ago that I can't ever predict who will change and who won't. You're gambling your life away on the chance that this guy will change. Only you can decide how many years to give it. What are you waiting for?Although you say you know his behaviours aren't your fault, something tells me that you're hoping your love for him will turn the key that unlocks something and makes him want to change. You can only decide when you've paid too much. I bet there's someone out there who loves and misses you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-to-gain-joy-and-prosperity-in-my-relationship-after-years-of-unhappiness", "topics": "Relationships,Domestic Violence"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my girlfriend back? My girlfriend broke up with me five months ago because I said awful things to her one night for no reason of hers. I have been trying to get her back, but it isn\u2019t easy. She is in her 50s and I am in my 40s. She is the one I want for my life, and this is killing me. Every day, I cry, and I am desperate for help.\nTherapist: New York, what would it mean about you if you got her back? Is that the only way you can like or forgive yourself...if she forgives you and takes you back? Your self respect doesn't need to rely on this working with her. She simply doesn't want to be with you, and every day that you refuse to honour her decision is another day that you hurt her all over again. Move on and heal, perhaps with the help of a therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-girlfriend-back", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I find a therapist for my family as a minor? I\u2019m a teenager. My entire family needs family therapy, and more than likely individual therapy. My parents refuse to take action, and I'm tired of it. Is there any way I can get out of this myself?\nTherapist: This sounds like a really tough situation. As a teenager, you may be able to get counseling on your own (without needing your parents' consent) under some circumstances. If your parents are refusing to\u00a0consider counseling, you might want to try talking to your doctor or another trusted adult\u00a0about finding some counseling resources - even without your parents' help.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-a-therapist-for-my-family-as-a-minor", "topics": "Family Conflict,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: Is my therapist telling my abuser the results of my test a HIPAA violation? After a domestic abuse situation, I went to a therapist, and then my husband went. The therapist discussed her assessment of borderline personality disorder with me. She then told my abuser the results of my tests.\nTherapist: It sounds like it may have been a violation of confidentiality for your therapist to disclose information about you without your permission. There are some exceptions to the general rule of confidentiality however. For example, when a therapist has a reasonable concern that a client (or someone else) is in imminent danger, he or she is generally allowed to disclose confidential information to protect that person. If you believe your counselor has violated your confidentiality, you can always contact your states' counseling regulatiory board. The board\u00a0will then investigate the allegations and can take appropriate action.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-my-therapist-telling-my-abuser-the-results-of-my-test-a-hipaa-violation", "topics": "Domestic Violence,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: Why do I hate sex? I love my boyfriend and everything that leads to sex, but when it comes to the actual penetration, I hate it. I don't know why, but I just want it to be over. I feel like crying. I don't know why I don\u2019t like it because all of my friends enjoy it.\nTherapist: Although I am not entirely sure why you might be struggling in this area, an initial question I have is do you want to be sexually active at this time or is this something that you feel pressured into doing.? Are you afraid of the emotional intimacy? When these types of traumatic events occur, \u00a0people can essentially become triggered negatively by anything that reminds them of past trauma. Such events can cause an aversion to sex even if there is now a loving relationship whom one wants to be sexually active with. A final area that you might explore would be whether or not you are experiencing pain with penetration.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-hate-sex", "topics": "Intimacy,Human Sexuality,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less anxious when dealing with my toddler? My toddler defies everything I say and doesn\u2019t see me as authoritative, so she says no about everything. I'd like to hear some ways I can work on not needing to feel so much in control all the time.\nTherapist: What types of behavior/situations can you let go of? If you allow yourself to worry about the various areas in life that you cannot control, you will find yourself stressed out and unable to manage everything. Remember to give your toddler praise when he/she does something good or acceptable. Be consistent and follow through with your instructions. Parenting comes with its set of challenges but all you can do is your very best.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-anxious-when-dealing-with-my-toddler", "topics": "Anxiety,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Why do I hate sex? I love my boyfriend and everything that leads to sex, but when it comes to the actual penetration, I hate it. I don't know why, but I just want it to be over. I feel like crying. I don't know why I don\u2019t like it because all of my friends enjoy it.\nTherapist: Does your boyfriend notice that you hate sex?If \"yes\", then it is a topic which the two of you would gain deeper understanding of each other, by discussing. If \"no\", then possibly one reason for hating sex is that your boyfriend doesn't notice who you are as a person, not simply a physical body engaged in sex.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-hate-sex", "topics": "Intimacy,Human Sexuality,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less afraid of rape? Why am I so afraid of it? I don't understand.\nTherapist: No one wants to be raped and I imagine everyone is afraid of what being raped would feel like. One general direction of what would help is to regain confidence in your decisions of keeping yourself safe. In families in which people have suffered severe violations of themselves, often the emotional patterning of expecting to be hurt by others, plants itself very deeply and transmits to the younger generation. The good news is that individual therapy, with a credentialed and licensed therapist, is ideal for a safe place to open and clear this type of emotional burden.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-afraid-of-rape", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel so lonely these days? I have no idea what happened. I go places and do things but still feel lonely. I honestly have no friends, and I am always the one texting people and bothering people. I feel invisible, like someone that no one wants to be around.\nTherapist: A lot of times any and each of us creates what we need for ourselves by seeing other people as creating these circumstances and situations. Is it possible that at this time period in your life, being alone is positive for sorting through your true values or sorting through key situations in your life?If \"yes\", then possibly you are giving yourself some alone time, even though to some degree being alone is not your first choice. Also, most relationships are not forever. Is it possible you are at a phase when some relationships are simply closing down so that you have clear space within your life for new and different activity?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-so-lonely-these-days", "topics": "Intimacy,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less anxious when dealing with my toddler? My toddler defies everything I say and doesn\u2019t see me as authoritative, so she says no about everything. I'd like to hear some ways I can work on not needing to feel so much in control all the time.\nTherapist: Trust that you are a good mother and that you love your child. Trust and love are their own authority and come from a different inner place than the urge to be obeyed. Trust and love are effective guidance and usually feel happier and lighter too!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-anxious-when-dealing-with-my-toddler", "topics": "Anxiety,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Could a car accident add more problems to my posttraumatic stress disorder? I have been diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder due to my military experiences. Not a year ago, I had a car accident. Could this experience add more problems?\nTherapist: You are right on to recognize that the effects of trauma can be cumulative. It is very possible that a car accident could lead to an increase in PTSD symptoms that were related to other traumatic experiences. If you have been deployed to a combat area, you are most likely eligible for free counseling services through the VA Vet Centers. The Vet Center clinicians typically have a lot of experience working with military trauma. Here's a link to a directory of Vet Centers:http://www.va.gov/directory/guide/vetcenter.aspYour service and sacrifice is greatly appreciated.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/could-a-car-accident-add-more-problems-to-my-posttraumatic-stress-disorder", "topics": "Trauma,Military Issues "}, {"text": "User: I like a guy, but I worry that he thinks I'm creepy. nan\nTherapist: He may also think you're the most wonderful person in the world and that he's glad to know you!Worrying what someone else thinks about us without directly approaching them in an open minded way to see what actually are their impressions of us, will wear out the person who has the worry. Feeling nervous and to a degree anxious, is pretty typical of anyone. Since until you find out whether this particular guy likes you or does not like you, the possibility of an unfavorable outcome, creates anxiousness. The best way out of your anxiety is to decide on your way of being friendly to this guy and see how he handles himself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-like-a-guy-but-i-worry-that-he-thinks-i-m-creepy", "topics": "Relationships,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: What does it mean when my wife says she loves me but isn't \"in love\" with me? nan\nTherapist: Usually someone means by this that the person cares about you, feels warm and friendly, has an interest in helping you, believes you have positive qualities such as kindness, and are generally a likable person toward whom the person feels affection. Romantic love and intimate involve a deeply felt dynamic that is unique to the particular couple. The dynamic results from the shared identity of being part of that particular couple. Loving another person is a one way dynamic of one person toward another person. In love is appreciating and freely wanting to continue, contributing to the couple's shared dynamic.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-does-it-mean-when-my-wife-says-she-loves-me-but-isn-t-in-love-with-me", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I control myself and learn to let things go or communicate? Whenever I run into a situation that makes me upset or angry, I tend to start cursing and badly offending the person I am confronting. Whenever people tell me stuff about my relationship (like starting rumors or saying negative things about me or my relationship) I lash out not just them but at my boyfriend. I want to be a better person and learn to let things not get to me and be happy and graceful.\nTherapist: Taking accountability for your actions and seeking help is an excellent first step. I would also suggest doing some self-exploration and see a therapist for individual sessions in order to gain a clearer insight as to what the cause is. Here is what I would recommend you try: Take time outs: When you feel yourself becoming upset, excuse yourself and take a time out to either think about the most appropriate course of action\u00a0or redirect your thoughts all together. Often when we\u00a0become angry, it is difficult to see the issue clearly, as our emotions\u00a0get in the way. As the listener, you want to validate what you hear so that the other person knows that you are listening.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-myself-and-learn-to-let-things-go-or-communicate", "topics": "Anger Management,Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid having past traumatic experiences affect my present and future? I have family issues, and my dad was both violent and a cheater.\nTherapist: I can imagine how incredibly difficult this must be for you. Having past traumatic experiences creap up on you without warning can be very scary and stressful. You may be suffering from symptoms related to post-traumatic stress disorder. Getting evaluated by a professional would be a good step to take next. By seeking treatment and having a therapist who you trust and can connect with, you will gain the ability to think about your experiences without it significantly interfering with your daily functioning. I would also recommend that you seek support from loved ones.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-having-past-traumatic-experiences-affect-my-present-and-future", "topics": "Trauma,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid having past traumatic experiences affect my present and future? I have family issues, and my dad was both violent and a cheater.\nTherapist: Hi New York, There's no way to keep your past from affecting your present and future, because it's a huge part of who we are. I'm met many people who have horrific pasts and it helps them know confidently, every day, what kind of person they want to be and what kind of world they want to live in, and it helps them make really great decisions. You can accept your past, integrate your traumas and move forward in a very different way. If you see negative ways in which your past affects you (and this is also common), you are wise to seek professional help. Without knowing more, it's impossible to give you a lot of direction here.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-having-past-traumatic-experiences-affect-my-present-and-future", "topics": "Trauma,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Should my wife and I seek any kind of counseling if she is convinced our marriage is over and has turned romantic love into platonic love? Over the course of a few days, my wife was unsure about her feelings for me due to constant intimacy issues. After she thought things through, she came to the realization that she is no longer \"in love\" or attracted romantically to me. She instead has more of a platonic love and just cares for me as just \"family.\" At that point, she said our marriage was over. Now over the course of the last few days, she has taken a \"friendship\" from a coworker.\nTherapist: Hi Portland,This must feel like your world is turned upside down, for your wife to declare her confusion, followed closely by resignation, followed closely by a new \"friend\". Or, it's possible she's met this new \"friend\" and her attachment to him has clouded her view, or clarified something for her. I would seek the support of a therapist who can help you sort out what YOU want; whether it's to move on with your life, or wait patiently for a period of time. But you can find out what the best path for you is.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-my-wife-and-i-seek-any-kind-of-counseling-if-she-is-convinced-our-marriage-is-over-and-has-turned-romantic-love-into-platonic-love", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Should I take my daughter to therapy? My daughter didn't see her biological father for the last three years. She doesn\u2019t want to see him because she remember really bad things from him such as domestic violence and child abuse. The visitation is with supervision, but she refuses to see him. Is it better to take my daughter to the therapist and try to see him after the therapy?\nTherapist: Hi Dillon,I'm from Canada, so I don't know the laws in your state. In my opinion, a child should never be forced into a situation where they feel unsafe, even if it is \"supervised\". I recommend you see a lawyer, who will advise you about how to proceed without putting yourself at risk of breaching custody agreements. If you feel your daughter can benefit from therapy, that is a separate question. A family therapist will typically meet with you alone first, in order to determine if therapy is a wise move for your child.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-take-my-daughter-to-therapy", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do I help my partner overcome depression over not having his kids by his side all the time? My partner seems to always get depressed over the fact that his kids have to see and go through the divorce process. It\u2019s especially when the mother of his kids keeps making him feel bad and using the kids as an excuse to get back at him. I feel like just telling him to go back with his family and forget about me.\nTherapist: You know, I meet with a lot of people who are so sick of the crap that their ex puts them through in the divorce process that yes, they wonder if it's best to go back. Your partner feels powerless to change the current situation. I bet the main barrier to him being happy is the guilt he feels. That's his ex's voice...that's what she wants him to feel...to give into that is letting her win. A good therapist can help your partner regulate his emotions, combat shame, create emotional distance from his ex and erect proper boundaries.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-help-my-partner-overcome-depression-over-not-having-his-kids-by-his-side-all-the-time", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I control myself and learn to let things go or communicate? Whenever I run into a situation that makes me upset or angry, I tend to start cursing and badly offending the person I am confronting. Whenever people tell me stuff about my relationship (like starting rumors or saying negative things about me or my relationship) I lash out not just them but at my boyfriend. I want to be a better person and learn to let things not get to me and be happy and graceful.\nTherapist: Congratulations on making your way to Step One, self-observation and deciding to change a feature about how you understand and relate to others. Start on the inside track of your own heart and mind. Once you're able to understand what is driving your emotions to the point where the only reasonable way of handling them is to curse and offend people, you'd have gotten a long way in knowing your own expectations of others and how far off the mark from this in your mind, they are. Also, this is a long process because you'd be trying to change long time and deep patterns of interacting.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-myself-and-learn-to-let-things-go-or-communicate", "topics": "Anger Management,Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid having past traumatic experiences affect my present and future? I have family issues, and my dad was both violent and a cheater.\nTherapist: Sorry that your growing up years in the family were so unsafe and painful. Everyone has family legacy patterns of behavior and ways of handling emotions, handed down to them simply by living. If you have a similar sense of hurt or that something is wrong, yet in a familiar way, then most likely you are in a relational pattern similar to the negative ones in your family of origin. This realization moment is your chance to more deeply see your own original trauma and try different ways of responding to these similar key situations. This type of work takes a lot of repeated effort because trauma is deep and childhood trauma is attached to loving ones parents.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-having-past-traumatic-experiences-affect-my-present-and-future", "topics": "Trauma,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I like pets? My boyfriend recently got a kitty. I hate cats in general, and he knows it. It grosses me out and makes me very upset when he pets his cat. I want to throw out the cat. I feel very jealous.\nTherapist: Sorry for you and sorry for the cat because you're each in a tense position. What was the context of your boyfriend adopting a cat since he was aware that this would likely cause problems in the relationship with you?If you don't already know his answer, then find out. Doing so will tell you a lot about your boyfriend's expectations about you. Does he expect you to accept without question, whatever he does? Its not the cat's fault for being in your boyfriend's care.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-like-pets", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Should I take my daughter to therapy? My daughter didn't see her biological father for the last three years. She doesn\u2019t want to see him because she remember really bad things from him such as domestic violence and child abuse. The visitation is with supervision, but she refuses to see him. Is it better to take my daughter to the therapist and try to see him after the therapy?\nTherapist: Has the father or the visitation supervisor contacted you regarding why your daughter hasn't shown up for the past three years' worth of supervised visitation?Or is the supervised visitation a new development for the bio dad and your daughter?If no one is pressuring or expecting your daughter to show up, no one has even asked where she is, why she isn't present, then I don't see any reason for you to offer more effort by your daughter, than the father is willing to make for seeing her. If your daughter is willing to talk with a therapist, then let her find out first hand if the sessions seem useful or not.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-take-my-daughter-to-therapy", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How can I control myself and learn to let things go or communicate? Whenever I run into a situation that makes me upset or angry, I tend to start cursing and badly offending the person I am confronting. Whenever people tell me stuff about my relationship (like starting rumors or saying negative things about me or my relationship) I lash out not just them but at my boyfriend. I want to be a better person and learn to let things not get to me and be happy and graceful.\nTherapist: Hi California,I'm happy to hear you want to get a hold of this problem. Relationships don't tend to last when we treat people poorly. Once you do, you can ask yourself about the other times in your life when you have felt that emotion. Your habit is so strong that you likely have a poor sense of self-worth and you don't believe people will love you...so you hurt them to keep them at a distance. Find out what respect is, make amends and \u00a0resolve to spreading peace.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-myself-and-learn-to-let-things-go-or-communicate", "topics": "Anger Management,Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I don't know what to do about my son's lying. My son stole my debit card and lied about it. It's not the first time he has lied. I don't know what to do anymore. I don't know if I should punish him or make him do something. I've tried talking to him and asking if anything was wrong. I have grounded him, but nothing works. What should I do?\nTherapist: Hi Enid, You sound like a sensitive parent; I like that you talked to your son to see if anything is wrong. I see it as every child's job to figure out the rules and find where their power is in the world. In order to accomplish that, many of them test limits. \" It's funny, because as parents we try to tell our kids that lying is bad, but they know they'll get a consequence if they tell the truth so there are natural deterrents to being honest (we don't want people to know our mistakes). Tell your child to take the cookie at some point in the day. Then ask them later if they took the cookie.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-know-what-to-do-about-my-son-s-lying", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I have feelings for one of my best friends. I was hanging out with my close guy friend. We started kissing, but afterwards, he said that we should just stay friends because he doesn't want to ruin anything. We both just got out of relationships. His was very sexual. I'm not a sexual person, and he knows that. I want to be with him, but I'm not ready for another relationship, and I don't know if he ever will want to be more than friends.\nTherapist: Given that both you and your friend recently ended your respective romantic relationships, kissing each other sounds like each of you satisfied a very natural need which for right now does not has a natural source of satisfaction. Suddenly being without a partner is difficult because a relationship absorbs and offers much of a person's energy. From what you describe about your friend, similar to you, he does not feel ready for a new relationship. Who knows?It is possible your friend will feel ready for a new relationship, approach you, and depending on your personal wishes to be or not be with who he has become, accept his offer.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-feelings-for-one-of-my-best-friends", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my ex-boyfriend cheating on me? My father cheated on my mother when I was little. My ex-boyfriend and I were only dating for five months, but I still can't get over this betrayal. I still hate him for what he did and still want him to like me although we're not even talking anymore. We follow each other on Instagram and that's it. I want to focus on my new relationship and goals, but I keep obsessing over this and keep checking my ex-boyfriend's Instagram and Facebook.\nTherapist: The dilemmas you present are giving you a great chance to understand your true reasons for being in a relationship. Continue developing some points you've written here. After all, children don't have the ability to separate that what their own parents do, is wrong compared with the rest of our culture. It is natural to long for a relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-ex-boyfriend-cheating-on-me", "topics": "Trauma,Self-esteem,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: I'm depressed because my mother kicked me out after having a child. I just had a newborn. When I brought him home, my mom told me to leave. Now I'm in a women's home. I don't see my boyfriend that often because he works. The women's place is helping me find an apartment so I can go back to work and get child care.\nTherapist: Congrats on the birth of your son!Was your mom's request for you to leave her house, one which she asked awhile ago or was this her greeting when you walked in the door?My question is whether your mom had some changed circumstance in her life, whether she and you discussed living arrangements prior to your son's birth, or whether nothing was talked about, you assumed you'd be living with her, she assumed you wouldn't, and the two of you didn't speak to one another about any of this. It is good news that the people who run this home know and offer community resources. In your interactions with the staff of the women's home, ask all the questions necessary so you'll have a clear understanding of the apartment lease, anything at all that is on your mind about becoming employed and finding childcare. The point is to have all the major steps you're about to start, addressed.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-depressed-because-my-mother-kicked-me-out-after-having-a-child", "topics": "Depression,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I fix my marriage? I have been married for 20 years. He and I both cheated. I hid my cheating for 14 years. Over that time, I let life stress me out. I became depressed. When I finally woke up, he felt I had pushed him out.\nTherapist: Do you both want to fix the marriage?The relationship belongs to both of you so that one working without the other cooperating in this work too, will have one person who does all the changing. This dynamic itself creates problems of its own. If he did nothing because he felt unsure what to do, anything which shows he understands he has as vital a part in the marriage as you, is ok. Because affairs create mistrust between two people, the two of you would also need to be very aware to regain each other's trust.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-fix-my-marriage-2", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why do I still feel a connection with my ex-boyfriend that hurt me very badly? My ex-boyfriend boyfriend and I lived together. He had a two year affair with a girl and had three pregnancies with her. One was an abortion, another was a miscarriage, and then she had the third baby. They are not together, but he continues to contact me and wants me back. He has nothing to offer me.\nTherapist: Hi Attica,This is a question I think a lot of people deal with...they feel confusion about why they can't forget about or get over (or stop connecting with) someone who they absolutely know isn't good for them. For some people, honestly, it's a game... to see how much power they have over you or it's their need to control you. If you don't want contact from this person, it's really important to give him clear messages about boundaries (\"Don't contact me again\"), and then ignore all of their communications. Sometimes it's because we still hope they will change. It's as though we want them to stay, maybe apologize, and heal our hurts; maybe make up for past mistakes.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-still-feel-a-connection-with-my-ex-boyfriend-that-hurt-me-very-badly", "topics": "Relationships,Relationship Dissolution ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop being so emotional all the time over worthless stuff? I was never like this. Recently this year (my first year of high school), I started getting emotional for no reason.\nTherapist: Hello Vancouver, It's really common for people to become very upset over small things sometimes. The small thing is a \"trigger\", and the emotions aren't so much about that event that's happening in the present; they are more connected to old events that evoked the same feeling. You've likely had too much of that feeling in your life and you've developed a sensitivity to it. If there's anger there, look underneath that. Is it powerlessness, worthlessness, hurt, shame...?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-being-so-emotional-all-the-time-over-worthless-stuff", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I control my anger? I have a really bad temper. I get mad very easily then stay like that the whole day. I don't mean to be that way, but I can't help it.\nTherapist: A lot of times the anger someone expresses is from feeling a deep level hurt within themselves. The fury may have more with many times before in your life, having been deeply let down by someone who mattered to your life at the time, who similarly promised something and failed to deliver whatever it. Without practice of being heard when feeling hurt by someone, eventually the person, possibly you, learned to contain and contain your emotions. It is possible that the anger you feel at a variety of situations lately, are muting hurt feelings that you've understood from relating to meaningful people in your personal history, to not talk about.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-my-anger-3", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: I found my boyfriend talking to his ex-girlfriend. About a month ago, I went through my boyfriend\u2019s phone and found him messaging his ex-girlfriend that he was dating before me. He gave her a promise ring when they were together, and he still had it hiding in his memory box in our son\u2019s room. I found many things on his phone, but that broke my heart the most. He deleted all the messages but two. I can't help thinking they were talking about the old times together or something like that. It really kills me, and I can't stop thinking about it.\nTherapist: Your sense of hurt is very understandable. Probably if the two of you talk about these topics and you each become clear as to the commitment status of each of you to the other, you'll have more clarity as to what either of you would like from the other. With this new level of clarity, his \u00a0past relationship involvements will likely be less meaningful .Once you have clear definition of the two of you as a couple, who he was as a past partner to someone else, will matter very little.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-found-my-boyfriend-talking-to-his-ex-girlfriend", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why do I think about death? I noticed lately that I've been thinking a lot about death. I don't want to die, and I'm not suicidal. I just think about what would happen if I died or if someone I loved died. I imagine how sad everyone I know would be. I know it isn't worth it, and I definitely want to live and have a future. I just think about it. When I'm driving, I sometimes imagine what would happen if I just let go of the wheel and kept going.\nTherapist: I'll respond to your speculation that if you let go of the steering wheel while driving, you'll end up quite seriously hurt, at the very least. It is fine to play in your mind with \"what ifs\". Since you wonder about being missed if you die, it is possible your thoughts about death are from feeling that you are metaphysically dead to people in your life whom you wish would show more interest in you. This may offer some insight as to your expectations of current relationships with others.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-think-about-death", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Why am I not as comfortable around my boyfriend anymore? I've been experiencing a lot of anxiety and panic attacks lately. I was recently diagnosed by my psychiatrist with obsessive-compulsive disorder. Lately, I've been questioning everything from my career to my relationship. My boyfriend and I just moved in a few months ago. All of a sudden, I don't feel as comfortable around him as I used to, although I can't seem to find a reason as to why I feel this way.\nTherapist: Hi New Jersey,You talk about two very big changes in your life that have happened lately; the diagnosis/anxiety, and the moving in together. But letting anxiety control how you see your relationship isn't the answer here. You must have moved in with him for a reason, and it's appropriate now to simply trust that, to ask him for some patience, and to focus on learning to manage the anxiety rather than questioning this decision to move in. You can figure the anxiety piece out while living with your boyfriend. When you're in a bit of a crisis is not the right time to make a major change.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-not-as-comfortable-around-my-boyfriend-anymore", "topics": "Relationships,Behavioral Change,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My husband treats me terribly. My husband and I have been together for seven years now. I will be honest: I have a problem lying to him about stupid stuff. I recently stupidly lied to my husband about an accident because I was afraid to tell him what happened. Ever since then, he gives me the cold shoulder. He gets so mad and ignores me for days. He's really verbally and emotionally abusive. He tells me all the bad things about me and calls me awful names. Should we call it quits? I'm tired of crying, but we have a toddler together.\nTherapist: Hi Texas, Thanks for your honesty; it helps me know where to go in answering you. Your lies are a natural and normal way of you avoiding situations and encounters that feel unsafe for you. This is a complex picture, and if you were my client, I would want to get you to a stronger place emotionally where you're seeing the situation clearly and gathering resources and supports before you make any big decisions, but I do see that there are decisions that are there for you to make that can lead to a happy life for you and your child. I sincerely hope you seek professional help, with either a shelter for abused women or a therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-treats-me-terribly", "topics": "Marriage,Domestic Violence"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell my parents that I'm depressed and need help? I hide it from everyone because I'm scared of the reactions I'll get. Last time I tried telling my parents, it was a huge argument about me being too young to be depressed (I\u2019m a legal adult), calling me ungrateful, and telling me that if I can't handle things now, it's only going to get worse in the future (which is turning out to be true). I'm just really tired, and sadly, I can't afford the help I need on my own.\nTherapist: Hi Georgia, There's a really good lesson here. I'll do some translating for you...\"You're so ungrateful\" means \"I need you to be successful and happy in order for me to feel I'm a good parent\". Your parents are being unsupportive, not because you're not suffering, but because this is all they're capable of right now. They are not where you will find the support you need, so keep looking for it in other places. If might be an aunt or a friend, or a friend's aunt. It might be a therapist or a bus driver or your family doctor.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-my-parents-that-i-m-depressed-and-need-help", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend wants me to sign a contract of things not to do. I was texting a guy who wasn't my boyfriend, and my boyfriend found out. We work together, so he went to work and told everyone I was cheating on him. I moved out of the house. There have been previous problems, and I feel like I'm usually the issue here. In order for us to move on, he wants me to sign this contract that he wrote out listing things he doesn't want me to do anymore. I'm wondering if this a healthy relationship to save or if I should walk away.\nTherapist: Hi Dallas,\u00a0While I think it's healthy for both members of a couple to have things that they need from each other and to talk about that, your situation sounds one-sided and rigid. There are elements of control here: humiliating you in front of coworkers, saying you have to sign the contract before you can move forward...does he decide when you move in and out? Your passive aggressive communications with the other man and your difficulty in knowing what direction you want also hint that maybe you don't have a voice in this relationship. No relationship is all good or all bad (wouldn't that make it easy?) You're too busy blaming yourself to see the situation clearly.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-wants-me-to-sign-a-contract-of-things-not-to-do", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my daughter with her severe depression and her obsessive form of thinking? I am on my own with my daughter. I am so worried and stressed about her.\nTherapist: Your instinct to help your daughter, is natural. Also, her age matters a lot in what way would be most likely to succeed in addressing the problems you describe. If your daughter is in your legal control, then you can locate a counselor nearby, discuss your situation with that person, and depending on the outcome, you'd be within your parenting right to take your daughter to a counselor. The person may feel resentful enough to not participate.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-daughter-with-her-severe-depression-and-her-obsessive-form-of-thinking", "topics": "Parenting,Depression,Behavioral Change,Stress"}, {"text": "User: Being human, I think of myself as a monster. I think most of the time, I lie, even when sometimes it would have been easy just to tell the truth. I have made love with both men and women, but it made no impact in my emotions. I don't enjoy the killing of the creature, but the hunt of it and to eat and drink the flesh and blood of the creature.\nTherapist: I'm not sure that you don't feel emotion or that you are frightened of the depth of your emotions. This is information someone told you or was part of your family system. Besides, monsters are an idea, they aren't real. If on the first bright sunny and warm day of the year, you remind yourself to notice what you're feeling in response to this, you'll be taking one step toward awareness of your emotions. If someone buys you a birthday present, be aware of how you feel. Keep adding awareness to situations and see if this builds an ease with feeling emotions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-learn-to-feel-emotion", "topics": "Depression,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Why am I not as comfortable around my boyfriend anymore? I've been experiencing a lot of anxiety and panic attacks lately. I was recently diagnosed by my psychiatrist with obsessive-compulsive disorder. Lately, I've been questioning everything from my career to my relationship. My boyfriend and I just moved in a few months ago. All of a sudden, I don't feel as comfortable around him as I used to, although I can't seem to find a reason as to why I feel this way.\nTherapist: How is your boyfriend responding to your discomfort around him?Has he told you that he's noticed changes in you?The good news about a relationship is that you can talk about matters with the other person. It just adds to the reasonableness of talking with each other about how living together feels to each of you. It is the normal sign of having to address many or deep matters. You're apparently self-aware since you're the one describing your own problematic situations. Keep the label of being \"disordered\", aside. Psychiatry labels do more good for psychiatrists than they do for people who are trying to live their lives.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-not-as-comfortable-around-my-boyfriend-anymore", "topics": "Relationships,Behavioral Change,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I not get depressed if my boyfriend doesn't want me anymore? nan\nTherapist: Feeling somewhat depressed for a little while from being rejected by a partner, actually is reasonable. Before feeling balanced in your life without this partner, its first necessary to recognize the \"before and after\" picture of how you felt with this partner. Knowing what is no longer part of your life shows you that what is surviving and eventually thriving, is your own life. Notice and appreciate yourself as you go about daily living. It is a way of offering loving recognition of your identity and who you are.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-not-get-depressed-if-my-boyfriend-doesn-t-want-me-anymore", "topics": "Relationships,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My mentally-ill mother-in-law wants to babysit. She has been in and out of psychiatric hospitals for about 40 years. She has voices in her head that tell her to cut herself. Her parental rights for her two children were taken away from her when my husband was a boy\u2014he is now in his late 30s. She doesn\u2019t even have custody of herself. She hasn\u2019t asked yet, but she has been insinuating that she wants to babysit my child.\nTherapist: Hi Fontana,Thanks for providing all the details needed in order to respond to your question. They're not hurting you and if you ignore them, they're more likely to go away. So, the first goal is to put it out of your mind as a worry. You might never have to face that moment. But if you are comfortable, and if you're the one she asks, you can confidently give her a simple, honest response about why it won't happen. Learning not to take responsibility for her emotions is part of having an ill person in your life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-mentally-ill-mother-in-law-wants-to-babysit", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: What is the proper procedure if your child's therapist is leaving the practice to work elsewhere? nan\nTherapist: There are several options when a therapist is transferring to a new practice. If the practice is in the same general area and the therapist does not have a non compete agreement they can let clients know where they are going. Generally if a therapist has a planned exit from an agency or practice they will inform their clients, and offer or provide \u00a0transition sessions or suggest new therapist options. At times, unforeseen events arise and and there is no transition process with the therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-proper-procedure-if-your-child-s-therapist-is-leaving-the-practice-to-work-elsewhere", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: What is the proper procedure if your child's therapist is leaving the practice to work elsewhere? nan\nTherapist: I would recommend other providers who accept your insurance. Once you choose, I would ask you to complete a release of information so I could discuss your child's case and send records so that the new therapist is aware of the general treatment issues.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-proper-procedure-if-your-child-s-therapist-is-leaving-the-practice-to-work-elsewhere", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my dad to understand that I don't want him to date or marry my best friend? She was dating my brother-in-law when we met. On Halloween 2014, I lost my mom to cancer. My mom and dad were still married when she passed away. My friend was there for me through that and my own cancer diagnosis.\nTherapist: How are you measuring whether or not your dad understands your wish?Your dad understanding your wish does not mean he will necessarily follow through with what you want. Have the conversation with your dad that includes your viewpoint, and also ask him for his impression of your feelings. Its even possible he already has considered your feelings and hasn't yet told you. It is also possible that a conversation on the subject, as well as your dad following through with his decision to marry your best friend, may develop in a very positive way. Try to see the situation from the point of everyone, including yourself, who is involved in this major change.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-dad-to-understand-that-i-don-t-want-him-to-date-or-marry-my-best-friend", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My wife and I have a great relationship except for our sex lives. We are pretty transparent and honest, and basically, she feels bad because she never wants to have sex. She feels like a terrible wife and fears I'll cheat on her. Everything I try tickles her, so she makes me stop. We are both frustrated but very much in love.\nTherapist: Congrats on your upcoming baby!Its possible that the pregnancy is diminishing your wife's sex drive. From everything you describe about your wife, she sounds to not yet have become comfortable with having a wish for sex. The other side of the sex equation is you and your relative ease with having sex and whether it is for physical release or as an expression of love, some of each. Since you talk with each other honestly then start with a dialogue about what you each would like from sex with each other, from perspective of giving and receiving sex. Hopefully this will open up some new light on your respective feelings.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-doesn-t-want-to-have-sex", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: I think I can become a transgender, but how can I be sure? I've recently thought that i could be transgender but I've never had the mind of a girl.\nTherapist: Hello Frostproof,Thinking about becoming transgender and being transgender are slightly different. This is a topic that is best discussed with a therapist that specializes in LGBTQ issues. While labels provide a means to quickly identify and classify, they can also feel restrictive or confining. Instead of focusing on fitting into a specific classification, explore who you are as a person and celebrate your positive qualities and those things that make you uniquely you! You can try Breakthrough an online service. Here is some reading for refection that you may find helpful.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-think-i-can-become-a-transgender-but-how-can-i-be-sure", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I'm a mess physically, mentally, emotionally, and spiritually. I need deeper help than is offered in my small town, but I cannot leave this town because of agoraphobia. My brain barely works anymore, and my memory so small, I forget in a moment. I'm incapable of work or anything of value, and I never have been. I\u2019m a complete waste of time and resources, and yet I keep trying.\nTherapist: Sometimes when I'm working with a client who experiences depression or anxiety, I ask them for a glimpse into their worst moments in their minds. \" What evidence might God...who sees all..have of your worth? What hint might God give you about your purpose? Fear tells you perhaps that people will reject you (or something equally bad), and then agoraphobia steps in and traps you and uses as evidence the fact that no one seems to be reaching out to you to convince you that you have no worth. That's only a story though; not the truth. Start with just one person, and that will lead you to somewhere.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-a-mess-physically-mentally-emotionally-and-spiritually", "topics": "Self-esteem,Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my dad to understand that I don't want him to date or marry my best friend? She was dating my brother-in-law when we met. On Halloween 2014, I lost my mom to cancer. My mom and dad were still married when she passed away. My friend was there for me through that and my own cancer diagnosis.\nTherapist: Hi Lincoln,It can be very difficult for children who have lost a parent to then see their other parent moving forward with anyone, so I understand how this change is even more upsetting to you. But in the end, your father, and your friend, are adults who are free to fall in love with whomever they wish and hopefully they can count on the support of people who trust and love them. Could there be blessings here you haven't seen yet? What is the evidence that this will happen?\"", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-dad-to-understand-that-i-don-t-want-him-to-date-or-marry-my-best-friend", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My wife and I have a great relationship except for our sex lives. We are pretty transparent and honest, and basically, she feels bad because she never wants to have sex. She feels like a terrible wife and fears I'll cheat on her. Everything I try tickles her, so she makes me stop. We are both frustrated but very much in love.\nTherapist: Hi Seattle,While it's normal in many relationships for there to be a difference in sex drives, I believe that your wife has a major barrier to having a healthy sexual relationship. Sometimes people with sexual barriers are very active for a period when they're young because they're trying to prove something or overcome a fear. Right now, you can both accept that there is a barrier and it's hers and she can explore that in a safe relationship with a therapist and perhaps a doctor. It's possible she's asexual (not interested in sexual activity but very interested in love), or that a trauma has affected her.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-doesn-t-want-to-have-sex", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over the past in my relationship? My boyfriend of five months expresses how much he cares for me and loves me, and I believe it. He\u2019ll tell me that he'll stop lying, and while he\u2019s saying that, he's hiding something or lying about something. He hid text messages and claimed she was a friend and it was a friendly conversation when it was a girl he once found interest in. He put a fake contact name, and it was just friendly, but he lied to my face.\nTherapist: New York, New York...it's not your boyfriend's lying that concerns me the most; it's the lies you tell yourself. Verbal expressions are easy, but it's walking the walk that's more important in the end. When someone shows you what they're capable of, you can believe them. He's capable of being manipulative and deceitful, and he even lies as he's telling you he'll stop lying. What you're doing is called denial; when you see evidence of something but you choose not to believe the evidence. My wish is that you start by believing in what you deserve.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-the-past-in-my-relationship", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over the man I had an affair with? We got into arguments, and we would break if off but start it back up again. We are both married with problems in our marriage. We never have sex; we just send a lot of pictures back and forth and talk about doing things together. I've been married for 16 years, and I've never liked anyone other than my husband. Now I like him, and we\u2019ll never be together.\nTherapist: If you will \"never be together\" and in order to maintain this affair you need to deceive both of your spouses it seems unlikely that maintaining the affair will bring anything but heartbreak for everyone involved. There is obviously something that you are getting from this that you are not getting in your marriage. If you and your husband are willing, I would encourage you to do some therapy or counselling together. You may enjoy this article to learn a little more about some factors that lead to connection or disconnection and that predict separation and divorce.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-the-man-i-had-an-affair-with", "topics": "Marriage,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: What can I do if I need to talk to someone but I have no money? I am broke, but I am sure I have been depressed for the past couple of years. I have always had anxiety. I just need someone to talk to right now. I don't have any friends or family I can talk to. I'm on the verge of just giving up.\nTherapist: There are resources out there - people to talk to. I'd try going to this link and calling the free 24/7 hotline:\u00a0http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org/", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-if-i-need-to-talk-to-someone-but-i-have-no-money", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: What is the proper procedure if your child's therapist is leaving the practice to work elsewhere? nan\nTherapist: Generally speaking therapists are obligated to help their clients connect with a new therapist should they require ongoing support and the therapist is no longer able to continue working with them. This may simply mean that the therapist provides some names and numbers for other therapists or agencies that may be appropriate for your child. If the therapist is leaving one practice for another and is able to continue seeing the client than that may be arranged and is often the most desired outcome for the sake continuity. Sometimes partners or employers in the original practice may expect and require clients of the practice to be transferred to another therapist within that practice instead of being taken to a new practice.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-proper-procedure-if-your-child-s-therapist-is-leaving-the-practice-to-work-elsewhere", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: My wife and I have a great relationship except for our sex lives. We are pretty transparent and honest, and basically, she feels bad because she never wants to have sex. She feels like a terrible wife and fears I'll cheat on her. Everything I try tickles her, so she makes me stop. We are both frustrated but very much in love.\nTherapist: That sounds really challenging for both of you. Differences in sexual desire between partners is common and can create real friction and conflict. I would encourage you to do some couples counselling or sex therapy as often these issues can be worked through and low sexual desire can result from relational fears and misunderstandings or sex that isn't as arousing as is possible. There are some good videos on this resource page about sexuality and intimacy and a video that specifically addresses desire differences in relationships.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-doesn-t-want-to-have-sex", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: My wife and I have a great relationship except for our sex lives. We are pretty transparent and honest, and basically, she feels bad because she never wants to have sex. She feels like a terrible wife and fears I'll cheat on her. Everything I try tickles her, so she makes me stop. We are both frustrated but very much in love.\nTherapist: Have you guys ruled out medical disorders. There is new data that post part depression starts in the pregnancy before baby is delivered. There maybe those factors .Please check out those arenas, firstly. Relationship changes with the time passing and with the time and care deposits of investment onto the relationship bank account. Thanks for this opportunity to answer some of ya.alls.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-doesn-t-want-to-have-sex", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: My wife and I have a great relationship except for our sex lives. We are pretty transparent and honest, and basically, she feels bad because she never wants to have sex. She feels like a terrible wife and fears I'll cheat on her. Everything I try tickles her, so she makes me stop. We are both frustrated but very much in love.\nTherapist: I suggest seeking the support of an AASECT certified sex therapist\u00a0to help work through much of the issues you address, you simply may need some really qualified support. Also, you might be interested in watching Esther Perel's ted talk on the secret to desire in a long term relationship, and/or\u00a0you might want to sign up for my own 8-part-series on Reconnecting Parent Couples", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-doesn-t-want-to-have-sex", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: I'm dating a boy that my religious parents don't like, and I'm having trouble finding my identity. This all started when I had a boyfriend about 10 months ago. At the time, I was pretty religious, but I let this happen. As soon as my dad found this out, he told my mom. They're always yelling at me about how I shouldn't date this boy. I don't talk to my parents anymore about him, and my parents think I'm deceiving because of it. They say my boyfriend is taking me away from my parents.\nTherapist: What a tough situation you must be in, feeling torn between your parents and someone who is very special to you. I would say the first thing you want to do is\u00a0(if you haven't already), have a calm reciprocal conversation with your parents, telling them how you feel and letting\u00a0them know what you need from them. Validating other's feelings can be very helpful with communicating effectively. Are you living with your parents and do they support you? If so, are you willing to give that up should you decide to not follow\u00a0their rules? Not everyone will always approve of the choices\u00a0we make and sometimes we need to be okay with that.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-dating-a-boy-that-my-religious-parents-don-t-like-and-i-m-having-trouble-finding-my-identity", "topics": "Relationships,Human Sexuality,Family Conflict,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: My partner is bored of being intimate with me. My partner and I have had an amazing relationship and connection for over two years. We're very committed to each other and are planning a very long life together. However, he recently was very open and honest that he isn't interested in having sex with me anymore. He says this has happened in every past relationships and has ended it as a result. He knows it's because it's the \"same person\" feeling, but how can he get over this?\nTherapist: I wonder how long \"anymore\" will be for your boyfriend. Since you both are planning a long life together, instead of his custom of ending relationships when he feels bored with the sex, he will be facing the situation of being in a relationship and not having sex with his partner to whom he is committed. What are your own views on the meaning of sex in a relationship?Knowing this will help you be better able to collaborate with your boyfriend on finding ways of balancing what you each would like.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-partner-is-bored-of-being-intimate-with-me", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How can I forgive myself? Something happened this summer that I cannot forgive myself for. When I think about what happened, I feel ashamed and guilty even though my loved ones forgave me.\nTherapist: Hi Ohio, I totally get how it can be more difficult to forgive ourselves than to forgive others. Sometimes shame shadows are connected to an absent or hurtful parent, sexual abuse or some family loss or trauma. That's your first goal...to go to the source of the shame and heal that child's wound with compassion. What happens to children is never their fault (and fault is a pretty useless concept anyway).Once you take the layers of old \"I'm bad\" shame off, the load is lighter and you can use self talk to further reduce the shame. Here are some things you can say to yourself...every day...I'm human and that's okay. Other people don't want me to carry this shame around.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-forgive-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: What should I do if I think my partner is cheating? How can I know if I'm just being paranoid?\nTherapist: Hi Texas,Oh, that's a powerful idea, isn't it? I invite you to take a moment and write down what the evidence is that cheating is going on. When you have your data recorded, read on...The first scenario is that you have been personally hurt in the past by someone else and you've developed fears that you will be hurt again or that you're not enough to keep someone interested (this is just fear...people cheat for their own reasons, not because we're not interesting). This may be true if what you wrote down is \"They didn't really do anything wrong...there is no evidence. Ask your partner what's up with accusations or assumptions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-if-i-think-my-partner-is-cheating", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My daughter calls me crazy, and I\u2019m not sure how to handle that. Our blended family of children are in their 20s. My youngest, age 20, continues to call me crazy and favors her dad. He was abusive to me, and I left with injuries. Now my daughters favor him after all the sacrifices I made for them the past 15 years as a single mom. I don\u2019t deny them a relationship with their dad, but to be called crazy and then watch them hang out with him hurts me to the very core.\nTherapist: It sounds really difficult to know that your daughter may be \"choosing\" her dad over you, perhaps I can help by saying her intense emotional reactions towards you actually acknowledge how much safer and connected she feels towards you. We tend to have big emotions around those we care for most. I would suggest to let her know how hard it is to hear that, and sad it make you feel at times, and that this is hard for everyone. Expressing your feelings to here, will allow her to express hers too.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-daughter-calls-me-crazy-and-i-m-not-sure-how-to-handle-that", "topics": "Parenting,Relationship Dissolution ,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop abusing alcohol? I have bipolar II disorder, I'm addicted to alcohol and weed, and I'm hopeless. I keep drinking even though it's harming myself and others.\nTherapist: This relationship with your step dad sounds very challenging. It is hard to to be told over and over again how not good enough we are. Let me offer you this, frequently when we say harsh, mean, nasty things to others, we are simply projecting our own thoughts about ourself. I am not advocating that this is ok, it seems like your stepdad could also use some support. You get to make your own empowered choice around this, this is your life and if you find yourself in a situation that does not suit you make a change.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-abusing-alcohol", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: I have a tendency to not finish tasks I set my heart/mind to. I've been struggling with it for a test and I'm starting to believe it's something mental. What could it be?\nTherapist: Hello in Jacksonville,\u00a0It sounds like you are struggling with motivation to either take or study for a test. in beginning, after a few days, and after few weeks. Some questions that would be great to explore with a therapist are:\u00a0how often you start and stop tasks without completing them?how you are feeling when you choose to start/ stop a project/task?how many tasks do you complete? Do you ever feel like you are working against yourself?A licensed counselor in Jacksonville will be able to asses you and rule out or diagnose self-sabotaging, depression, anxiety or other possible contributing factors. Remember to continue to provide yourself daily motivation and encouragement towards your goals.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-a-tendency-to-not-finish-tasks-i-set-my-heart-mind-to", "topics": NaN}, {"text": "User: How can I stop abusing alcohol? I have bipolar II disorder, I'm addicted to alcohol and weed, and I'm hopeless. I keep drinking even though it's harming myself and others.\nTherapist: Anyone who wants to change their life path, eventually will be successful in this. Most often addicts are sensitive people who have been emotionally overburdened by the grownups in their family. With no outlet for emotional expression or nurturing, the frustration goes inward until the emotional pain feels very big and without an outlet. Also, about your diagnosis, it may not be true at all. See if you can find a therapist who is independent minded, and therefore free to interact therapeutically with you as a human being, not as a potential customer if they are able to label you as having something \"wrong\".", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-abusing-alcohol", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: Should we put off kids until my husband is mentally cured? My boyfriend is seeking therapy. He is in his 40s and has some childhood issues. He has kids from his previous ex-wife and is unable to see them.\nTherapist: Probably the more important questions to answer concern how much confidence you have in you and your boyfriend becoming parents, how you each feel about the influence of his being banned from seeing his current children, and be clear about the circumstances that led up to the decision of him not being permitted to see his kids. A relatively qualified therapist would never make this call. Psychological and emotional tensions emerge from our relationships within families. You and your boyfriend are in a position to set a strong foundation for having children, assuming each of you wants children. Childhood issues, your boyfriend's, anyone's, are more likely to go away when new patterns of interacting emerge.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-we-put-off-kids-until-my-husband-is-mentally-cured", "topics": "Relationships,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I take my emotional support animal to school? I have severe anxiety and have tried everything. Everything makes it worst.The only thing that helps is my emotional support animal.\nTherapist: Is it actually permitted that people are able to take support animals to school?I see your point of the animal helping you. I just also see the point that some people have allergies to animal hair or dander, or may feel distracted by an animal in the classroom. For your anxiety, I suggest some loving kindness toward yourself. Be patient with yourself and that you have anxiety. In a way, I'm suggesting you become your own \"support animal\".", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-take-my-emotional-support-animal-to-school", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My husband was lying about drinking again. A while back (3 years ago), I asked him to stop drinking so much, and he agreed. He admitted and apologized and promised he wouldn't do it again. Lately, my husband has been drinking on and off, but I noticed it was every single night. The other night, I counted the beers in the fridge just to see if some were missing. I asked if he had been drinking, but he snapped and said no.\nTherapist: Hi Los Angeles,So your husband is giving you mixed messages. It sounds more like you're talking about an out-of-control teenager than your partner. Ultimately, as an adult, he gets to decide what he puts in his mouth and if you try to manage that by monitoring how many beers he has, you are pretty certain to get some fallout... pushback...backlash... \u00a0How does his drinking affect you? You've mentioned snoring, which I guess is a legitimate complaint. It sounds like \"I've tried to support you in your drinking less, and it's not working. You have to decide what's more important; is it really the number of beers, or is it something else.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-was-lying-about-drinking-again", "topics": "Addiction,Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My daughter calls me crazy, and I\u2019m not sure how to handle that. Our blended family of children are in their 20s. My youngest, age 20, continues to call me crazy and favors her dad. He was abusive to me, and I left with injuries. Now my daughters favor him after all the sacrifices I made for them the past 15 years as a single mom. I don\u2019t deny them a relationship with their dad, but to be called crazy and then watch them hang out with him hurts me to the very core.\nTherapist: Hi Arkansas,\u00a0Your situation sounds like a case of parental alienation. If you run around screaming \"he's lying!\", One day, they may be ready to hear the truth of your relationship with their father, but wait until they ask. Children, in the long term, lose respect for parents who denigrate the other parent. Although I have to say that for them to call you names like crazy is not acceptable and you don't need to tolerate that disrespect, try to deal with this behaviour without bringing their dad into it. You get the worst because they trust your love.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-daughter-calls-me-crazy-and-i-m-not-sure-how-to-handle-that", "topics": "Parenting,Relationship Dissolution ,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Why am I so angry and jealous? I'm in my late 20s, and I've never had a boyfriend or even been on a date. I have no friends. I hate Facebook because everyone else has kids and a great husband and great paying jobs. I work in retail, and I can't find a job. I have an Associate degree. No one is not giving me a chance, and I'm getting upset and frustrated. I feel worthless and feel like everyone hates me. I feel like a failure, and I still live with my Dad. It's very embarrassing!\nTherapist: In case knowing this helps you, there are many more people in similar circumstance as you than you may realize. Similar to you, they are not on FB for the reasons you list. Plus, no one wants to go on FB and tell the world they don't have a fantastic life. First, yes it is painful to see all around you what appears as joyful living. As hard as it may sound or actually be, take time to hear your intuition and what it tells you, you need for your own growth and development.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-so-angry-and-jealous", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: I need help with my severe claustrophobia, motorphobia, and anxiety. I have to lean the seat back a bit because the pressure on my back terrifies me. They think it's fake or \"all in my head.\" It makes me feel guilty and at times depressed to the point where I'd rather never wake up anymore. This constant fear has taken over my thoughts and my life. I want to travel with my friends and family again, but I don't know how.\nTherapist: Not having support from your family for such a significant problem, is a problem itself. How about your friends, are any of them nurturing or treat you kindly when you bring up that you've got this problem?Are any of your friends willing to accommodate the fact that right now you've got panic attacks from driving and being a passenger?Maybe being and feeling accepted while you're in this current phase of your life, would help diminish the panic attacks. If no support is coming to you, then a next step would be to evaluate the relationships in your life and to develop standards and expectations of others, especially that they are considerate of your great need at this time. Be realistic in what you're able to give back to people who want to be blind to your emotional need. Hopefully, the others will be more responsive to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-need-help-with-my-severe-claustrophobia-motorphobia-and-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: My husband was lying about drinking again. A while back (3 years ago), I asked him to stop drinking so much, and he agreed. He admitted and apologized and promised he wouldn't do it again. Lately, my husband has been drinking on and off, but I noticed it was every single night. The other night, I counted the beers in the fridge just to see if some were missing. I asked if he had been drinking, but he snapped and said no.\nTherapist: As exasperated as you feel, and as obvious it is to you that your husband cares more about drinking than being honest with you, changing this is up to him. Does he care that you're upset with him for drinking more than he can handle?Does he care about you more than drinking?Living with an alcoholic, which is how his behavior sounds, is lonely and frustrating. Concentrate on what you like about him as he is now with his drinking. Be prepared to learn to live with and accept how he behaves, or not. Avoid the expectation that you can convince him to change. He doesn't sound like this, at least now.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-was-lying-about-drinking-again", "topics": "Addiction,Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My father has always been horrible to me. My suppose-to-be father told me to go find my real dad. We haven't been getting along since I was a teenager. If I said one thing that he thought was wrong, I always got degraded. He never said \u201cI love you.\u201d He never gave us hugs. He\u2019s always called me horrible names. I feel he's an evil man with no feelings.\nTherapist: Hi Louisiana, You got it right...he's \"supposed to be\" your father. It's your right to spend your time with the people who love you properly. It's tricky to put emotional distance between you and your supposed-to-be father, but it's possible...physical distance (avoid him if you don't trust you'll be treated with respect), and emotional distance (feeling less connected to and affected by his relationship disability). A good therapist can support you in these goals. I wish you the best in your growth as an independent adult. :)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-father-has-always-been-horrible-to-me", "topics": "Family Conflict,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Can a person be mean towards another person if that person was treated poorly before? I keep being mean to my best friend, and I don't know why all the time. I did come to maybe some kind of conclusion that it is because my mother is mean to me all the time. Could that be a cause?\nTherapist: Hi Morristown,There's a saying that goes \"hurt people hurt people\". It's possible that your aggression towards your friends is connected to your mother's behaviours. When we are treated poorly, especially as children, it affects how we ourselves, others, and the world. The good news is that you have this lovely awareness and I think a desire to learn about yourself and grow in your ability to be respectful to people you care about. I recommend you consider sitting down with a therapist and exploring these ideas and moving forward on that path you seem to want to be on.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-a-person-be-mean-towards-another-person-if-that-person-was-treated-poorly-before", "topics": "Family Conflict,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I get so angry that I want to explode. I've got so much anger. I don't know how to control myself. My girlfriend screams at me all the time, and sometime I don't know how to deal with life. I'm very depressed and angry. I feel lost.\nTherapist: Hi Campbell River,\u00a0You say you have anger but you don't mention how it shows. Since you mention depression, I wonder if you're bottling it all up somewhere instead of letting it show at all. If this is the case, I admire your ability to not lash out at someone who's hurting you. Is this the moment that you feel the most angry? I'm afraid to express it for fear of hurting someone (or falling apart, or feeling alone...).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-get-so-angry-that-i-want-to-explode", "topics": "Anger Management,Depression,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it wrong to be antisocial around people? I've been getting told lately by my partner that it\u2019s embarrassing that I'm so antisocial around his family and friends. I believe it's because I'm not as social as him.\nTherapist: Hi Buffalo, I think you're right; your partner's reactions are about him. I have to say it's a cruel thing to say to someone you love...that you're \"embarrassed by them\". You don't have to be different for anyone. If he can't accept you for who you are, what is he doing with you?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-wrong-to-be-antisocial-around-people", "topics": "Social Relationships,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I'm worried that there's something wrong with the guy I love. I met a guy a while ago, and I can't stop thinking about him. I feel like I love him, but I don't think I know him. What if he is not who I think he is? I cry sometimes thinking someone is going to be with him or that he has a girlfriend. I don't know, am I too obsessive? Every time we talk though, it's like magic. He makes me feel amazing, but what if I'm mistaken?\nTherapist: Keller, it sounds like you're living this relationship in your mind, instead of in the real world. You can get answers to your questions by talking to him...getting to know him will answer all the curiosities you have. You're asking the questions in your head instead of being in the friendship. So what is it that gets in the way of actually asking the questions and getting to know him? If you have fear that keeps you from having fulfilling friendships, I recommend a therapist to help you work through that.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-that-there-s-something-wrong-with-the-guy-i-love", "topics": "Relationships,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I'm depressed and unable to connect with people after my breakup. A girl and I were madly in love. We dated for over a year and were even talking about marriage and future plans together. She moved away for school, and we attempted a long distance relationship. We eventually broke up. It's been a year now, and I still haven't lost my feelings for her. I still love her the same way I did. I've suffered from depression ever since the breakup and have been unable to connect with anyone else. It's damaging me and my life.\nTherapist: Hi Boise, I'm sorry that you've lost this love. Maybe there's a burning question you need to ask or something else you need to say. Sometimes people are so in love that they can't clearly see that the other person isn't in love with them anymore. A key to moving forward: look at your thoughts and where they're getting stuck. It is possible that you've turned this ending into some kind of negative meaning about you or your future. I want to move forward and not stare in the rearview mirror. If this person loved me, others can too, (but not if I'm clinging to some old memory)These are the kinds of things a therapist would explore with you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-depressed-and-unable-to-connect-with-people-after-my-breakup", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I learn to let go of past problems and live one day at a time? I would like to be able to have more positive relationships in the present.\nTherapist: Hi Chapel Hill,\u00a0I like your goal; research is telling us more and more that one of the most important keys to happiness is having healthy relationships. Learning to forgive ourselves and others is so important. And remember...forgiveness isn't about saying something was okay; it only means \"It happened, I can't change that, and I don't want to carry it (anger, hurt, resentment) around anymore, so I let it go.\" Or...sometimes fear tells us that people won't accept us; this keeps us isolated for sure! but what it REALLY\u00a0wants is to paralyze and isolate us all so it can feel powerful.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-learn-to-let-go-of-past-problems-and-live-one-day-at-a-time", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I get my fianc\u00e9 to notice me again? My fianc\u00e9 and I have almost the best relationship every girl wants, but lately it's changed. I get less attention and little to no intercourse. We live two hours from family, and when I leave home to see family, he'll text me saying \"whatever\" and \"leave me alone.\" But when we're together, everything is okay. I love this man, but I just don't know what to do anymore.\nTherapist: Hi Rockford, While no relationship is \"perfect\", and it's natural for the passionate beginnings of a relationship to lessen with time, because we have established the trust and love needed as a foundation and we don't have to smother each other with attention anymore, your situation sounds like something different. What do you fear would happen if you let him know how you feel about his recent pulling away? Or maybe you have spoken to him about it. He doesn't seem to have the same idea that you do about what marriage is, and how close you want to be. But if this is true, he needs to tell you that so you can understand.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-my-fianc-to-notice-me-again", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I have voices in my head. They don't go away, and I feel like I'm going crazy. Does that ever stop? Can it be a symptom of medication?\nTherapist: This can certainly be a side effect of some medications. If the voices are so powerful that you can not sleep or they are constantly present, you shouldn't wait any time, but go and see your doctor straight away.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-voices-in-my-head", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I learn to let go of past problems and live one day at a time? I would like to be able to have more positive relationships in the present.\nTherapist: Remember, the past no longer exists and the future is just an illusion as we don't know what will happen tomorrow, so take the present as your guide. That is all we can do, so keep saying this to yourself and try to help someone each day. The happiness is helping others to feel a bit better.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-learn-to-let-go-of-past-problems-and-live-one-day-at-a-time", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I\u2019m in love with my friend who is also a girl. We used to talk for the whole day and night over the phone and on Facebook. I always wanted to touch her warmly and stay with her all my life. But all my dreams get broken apart after she got into a relationship with a guy. I\u2019ve tried to be in relationship with guys, but I can\u2019t be in love with them.\nTherapist: It all depends how old you are and what a particular situation is. You may be feeling very close to this friend and mistake that feeling for sexual feeling, or the feelings may be real. This is something you will find out for yourself, however, it definitely doesn't mean that you are a lesbian just because you have those feelings for this particular person. Time will tell, but if you need to discuss this, you could see your school councelor (if you are at school/university) or find a LGBT group with meetings and discuss this with them.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-a-lesbian-because-i-love-a-girl", "topics": "LGBTQ,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I have voices in my head. They don't go away, and I feel like I'm going crazy. Does that ever stop? Can it be a symptom of medication?\nTherapist: Since you realize that hearing voices in your head is not usual for you, then definitely there is a problematic situation happening within your awareness of who you are.if you recently started taking a new drug or increased dosage of one you already were taking, and the voices started shortly after, then yes, it is possible medication created your problem. \"Crazy\" has some flexibility as to whether someone is this way or not. Certainly a very positive sign that you're not crazy, is that you're self-aware of a problem within yourself. And, you're responsible toward yourself and making effort to address this problem. Crazy people usually don't do responsible behaviors.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-voices-in-my-head", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Is it wrong that I'm married and I have a best friend that's like a sister to me? nan\nTherapist: Although we all want (or wish) that our partner is also our best friend, in reality this doesn't always happen. There may be issues, of course and there are many things to consider there, such as \"why do we need\" another person to confide in, or are we actually attracted to this \"best friend\" but because we know we can't have them we put this thought behind etc. Is this friend and old friend, an old flame or a new acquired friend; the latter is complicated and probably the most questionable, in my view.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-wrong-that-i-m-married-and-i-have-a-best-friend-that-s-like-a-sister-to-me", "topics": "Marriage,Social Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: i need answers to my angry, possessiveness, and urges. I need answers to my anger, possessiveness, and urges. I am angry all the time. I push people away so much that I actually blow up on people now because they ask me how my day is or was. I have a possessiveness to someone who is not even mine. I have these urges to hurt someone really bad. I want to see them beg for me to stop hurting. I want to hear their agonizing pained-filled voices. What is wrong with me?\nTherapist: What result are you hoping to get from the behaviors you describe?Maybe start by comparing the results you see yourself receiving from your current interactions, with how you would wish to feel from relating to others. there is a disconnect between what you are doing and what you'd like in return. This is true even with imagining doing harm to others.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-need-answers-to-my-angry-possessiveness-and-urges", "topics": "Anger Management,Social Relationships,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I learn to let go of past problems and live one day at a time? I would like to be able to have more positive relationships in the present.\nTherapist: Would you describe yourself as sensitive to your surroundings and emotions?If yes, this may explain why letting go of past problems, is itself a problem. The dynamic of living one day at a time and letting go of past problems, is more imaginary and wishful than real. It is a popular notion of TV, FB, and media. Doing the letting go, has nothing to do with what is actually possible to do. Living one day at a time isn't possible for anyone who has consciousness. Then you will have more freedom to make new relationships. This is a process which cannot be rushed if it is to be done well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-learn-to-let-go-of-past-problems-and-live-one-day-at-a-time", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I get my fianc\u00e9 to notice me again? My fianc\u00e9 and I have almost the best relationship every girl wants, but lately it's changed. I get less attention and little to no intercourse. We live two hours from family, and when I leave home to see family, he'll text me saying \"whatever\" and \"leave me alone.\" But when we're together, everything is okay. I love this man, but I just don't know what to do anymore.\nTherapist: Have you brought up any of these topics for discussion with your fianc\u00e9?Now is a good time for finding out if and how your future husband is interested and addresses the way you are feeling. Maybe by being clear and truthful about how what he writes affects you, then next time he will change what he tells you. Really, the best first step is to open up all the topics you wrote about here, with him. This way you'll give each of you to discuss how to care about one another in a meaningful way.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-my-fianc-to-notice-me-again", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: It has manifested an extreme distrust for others. My husband and I are in a terrible place. Part of me wants to fix it, but then I'm caught up with not knowing how and not being able to communicate my feelings to him because he always feels I'm blaming him. I feel they must be coming from something he's doing, but sometimes I know I'm being irrational. The other half of the time, I just want to walk away, but I feel like that will only be a temporary fix.\nTherapist: You may be pressuring yourself to be the one person who fixes the relationship. Willingness to hear each other in a non-defensive way, sometimes requires a couples therapist's assistance. Warning, not all therapists are trained to do couples therapy. Ask the therapist if they've had specialized training in couples therapy. isn't going to do anything except frustrate both of you further.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-think-i-have-anxiety-and-depression-it-has-manifested-an-extreme-distrust-for-others", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety,Behavioral Change,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How do you get over someone cheating on you when you are trying to make it work? My boyfriend of five years told me he cheated on me during our relationship after we broke up. We've since gotten back together and are trying to make it work. I don't know how to trust him now, but I really want to make it work, and it seems like he does too. But my trust issues are getting in the way and causing problems.\nTherapist: How do you trust after you know someone is capable of hurting you? You can be stronger in the scarred places. I would suggest that you each have a separate job to do to rebuild this trust. He can help you to understand where those behaviours came from...why he cheated in the first places (although people aren't always good with those 'why' questions!)You can focus on telling yourself that people change, that he deserves a chance to show you he can be loyal (or at least you've decided to give him that chance), and that you want to be a trusting person. Don't go snooping, don't interrogate him.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-get-over-someone-cheating-on-you-when-you-are-trying-to-make-it-work", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Ever since she was born, my husband has \"shut down.\" We have no intimacy; he doesn't even kiss me. I've told him how I feel for years, and he swears he loves me and wants to make me happy, but I still have to literally beg for sex and affection. He uses his passive-aggressive ways and ignores every comment I make.\nTherapist: Hi Smyrna,Your husband is avoiding dealing with this problem. But I think he does have something to say. Your husband is 29 years older and you've been together for ten years...that puts you at around thirty perhaps and him at almost sixty? Your husband will need to believe that you are a safe place to share his fears, and you would need to hold onto the fact that he's really scared, and that he's not rejecting you...just protecting himself. I wonder if showing him this answer to your question might help?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-my-marriage-be-saved-2", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My daughter calls me crazy, and I\u2019m not sure how to handle that. Our blended family of children are in their 20s. My youngest, age 20, continues to call me crazy and favors her dad. He was abusive to me, and I left with injuries. Now my daughters favor him after all the sacrifices I made for them the past 15 years as a single mom. I don\u2019t deny them a relationship with their dad, but to be called crazy and then watch them hang out with him hurts me to the very core.\nTherapist: Hi, I understand what you're going through. Your daughters favor him because he has done no wrong in their eyes. Growing up I was the same way.. I favoured my dad, thinking he has done no wrong. He also abused my mother multiple times, and that never came to mind. kids like their other parent more mainly because they don't see them everyday, and they usually buy them everything they want, because all he does it pay child support (by force) and then spoil their kids to make them happy. You seem like a great mom, don't doubt yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-daughter-calls-me-crazy-and-i-m-not-sure-how-to-handle-that", "topics": "Parenting,Relationship Dissolution ,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Why do I throw all my stuff away? I constantly have this urge to throw away all my stuff. It\u2019s constantly on my mind and makes me feel anxious. I don\u2019t sleep because I\u2019m thinking about something I can get rid of. I don\u2019t know why I do it. I started years ago when I lived with my dad then I stopped when I moved in with my mom. Years later, it has started again.\nTherapist: Since you wrote that you noticed a change in your throwing away urge when you changed with which parent you lived, would you feel that throwing away things is connected to wanting to be done with certain areas of influence with either parent?Play in your mind with the metaphor of \"throwing away\" and whatever associations you feel toward this. Are you feeling alarmed or freed, by throwing away things? Possibly you are trying to rid yourself of painful feelings which were part of your early years' relationship with either parent. Basically, sounds as though you are trying to establish a clearer sense of who you are and the throwing away part is a means of discovering who you are, once all the clutter is released.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-throw-all-my-stuff-away", "topics": "Anxiety,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: I need to know how to cope with misophonia before I go completely insane. The sounds of eating and breathing gives me headaches\u2014mostly mouth breathing and snoring. It makes me angry, and I want to solve it myself.\nTherapist: Probably good to know in what type of situations you are, in which you are hearing mouth breathing and snoring. If you're sleeping beside your partner who does these actions, would have a different response than if you overhear mouth breathing and snoring from a family member who is napping on the couch and you are walking past them on your way to take a snack in the kitchen. Basically, if the person who does these actions which bother you, start by telling them. I don't really see any step you're able to take to solve that you are sensitive to human sounds from the head.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-need-to-know-how-to-cope-with-misophonia-before-i-go-completely-insane", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: I'm questioning my sexuality. I'm a teenage girl. I don't know if I'm straight, bisexual, or gay. I've been straight all my life, but a sudden rush of questions have come over me, and I don't know anymore.\nTherapist: Hi Brentwood, While our society tends to want to put us into categories...slots...when it comes to sexuality, because this is nice and neat and convenient...many people find that they don't fit perfectly into one or the other. All you have to do is exactly what you're doing; be aware of yourself and allow yourself to explore these thoughts and emotions both alone and in connection with a safe partner. The people who love you will continue to love you as you sort through this. You can resist the temptation to please others by giving yourself a label. I love how open you are to discovering yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-questioning-my-sexuality", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I'm a teenager, and I want to have a baby with my boyfriend. I have been dating my boyfriend for a month, and we want a baby. We don't work or drive, and we haven't talked to our parents. What should we do?\nTherapist: Hi Athens, When a teenager wants to have a baby, it's usually for a specific, and not healthy, reason. Do you maybe hope that a baby will cement your relationship? Do you yearn for a person who will love you deeply? Babies don't give to us; we give endlessly to them. I urge you to talk to someone you trust about why you want to speed up your life by being a parent before you are fully grown emotionally. A relationship that is one month old is not stable enough to support a change like this. You're only starting to get to know each other.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-a-teenager-and-i-want-to-have-a-baby-with-my-boyfriend", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over my fears of dying? Recently, I had a close call after delivering my second child (blood clot followed by internal bleeding and several blood transfusions). It was a close call. I am currently undergoing medical treatment because of the event, and I am constantly afraid the whole ordeal will happen again. I have never really had anxiety in the past, but I find now that it consumes my every day and night. With two beautiful children to raise, I am most terrified of not being able to raise and protect them.\nTherapist: Hi Meriden, it's natural that after a serious scare like that you would have some anxiety and fear. This fear is helpful to some extent, because it will assist you in taking care of yourself and not taking unnecessary risks with your health. If I wasn't keeping you alert, you would be very ill\". Fear doesn't trust you to take care of yourself. What is the evidence you are caring for yourself and doing everything you can to prevent a recurrence? What is the evidence from your doctor that this is unlikely to recur?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-my-fears-of-dying", "topics": "Trauma,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My brother's ex-girlfriend doesn't want her son to see us anymore. My brother just broke up with his girlfriend. While they were dating for the past two years, her son spent the weekends with me and my mother. Now she doesn't think her son should have any interaction with us. How should we approach the situation? Is she doing the right thing for her child?\nTherapist: Hi Tampa, I get that this is a loss for all of you; you have bonded with this child as a result of the significant time you have spent with him. He's a lucky boy to have had you all taking care of him. Certainly, it seems that his mother might not be making the best decision for her son; if you are willing to maintain the relationship, it would be good for him to still have that contact. In my book, the more people loving a child, the better. But, ultimately, she has the right to make these decisions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-brother-s-ex-girlfriend-doesn-t-want-her-son-to-see-us-anymore", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I'm questioning my sexuality. I'm a teenage girl. I don't know if I'm straight, bisexual, or gay. I've been straight all my life, but a sudden rush of questions have come over me, and I don't know anymore.\nTherapist: Being open minded about the type of sexual connection which feels true and real, is a solid starting point. Having questions is a very valuable way of more clearly defining your sexuality. Write one or two of your questions if you'd like a more specific focus to your general search about your sexual preference.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-questioning-my-sexuality", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How do I know if I have depression? I'm almost never happy. Half of the time, I don't feel anything. I find it easy to make myself feel nothing. I know I push people away because it\u2019s easier. I just want answers. I'm sick of feeling this way. It\u2019s ruining my relationships with people.\nTherapist: I suggest that you not diagnose yourself (only a physician can do that), but the symptoms you mention are certainly common signs of depression; rarely happy, emotional numbness, hopelessness, isolation. The great news is that depression is treatable. Even if medication helps, seeing a therapist to look at the roots of your depression and to build coping skills is very important. You are not alone, and you don't have to suffer. Keep asking questions and you will find your answers!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-know-if-i-have-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: My daughter is in her 30s, not married, and pregnant. How can I break the news to the family? She is living with her boyfriend of seven years. He is in therapy for depression and social anxiety. He hasn't worked in all this time.\nTherapist: Hi New York, There is no need for shame here; no one's done anything wrong! Do you dislike or judge his struggle with mental illness? Do you see him as less than worthy because he hasn't worked? I don't know for sure, but I imagine maybe his anxiety and depression get in the way of working. If your daughter loves him and is happy with him... If he is her chosen man, then they absolutely need your support, not your judgement. And if they struggle as a couple, you know what...they will need it even more!Is this your first grandchild?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-daughter-is-in-her-30s-not-married-and-pregnant-how-can-i-break-the-news-to-the-family", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I get rid of depression? I've been feeling worthless, unaccomplished, and so frustrated. I want to break things, hit myself, run away, kick, scream, and cry. I just want to be happy and outgoing again. I want to be able to take care of my daughter and live comfortably.\nTherapist: For your daughter's sake, start somewhere. Depression is so treatable, but you have to seek treatment from a professional. Here's a quick exercise for you to do that can show you how therapy might work... fear is telling you the worst possible story of your life, right? So... if there was an opposite story...the very best story that someone could tell about you and your life...what would that be? Someone who was around you when you were that outgoing person? I invite you to start exploring with a qualified therapist whatever barriers stand between you and your best life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-rid-of-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I better handle my breakup? I got involved with my best friend who is married but has been very unhappy for the last five years. We both fell in love and have been together for eight months. He left the house and filed for divorce. He decided to tell her about our relationship, and she is willing to forgive and work on things. This shook him. They have two kids together. He decided to put the divorce on hold. He left town for a month to get clarity on the situation and see a therapist.\nTherapist: Hi Miami, I feel your sadness; you might have planned a future with your best friend. Your friend came face to face with what leaving the marriage meant...huge changes and many intense emotions. He is wise to consider his choices carefully; especially if you have children, there is good reason to work at a relationship that is less than fulfilling. For yourself, you can accept that being \"best friends\" with a man might not be a wise thing. Acknowledge and allow yourself to feel that sadness, that grief. I wish you well, and for the record, I'm proud of the maturity you show in this situation. :)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-better-handle-my-breakup", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Am I somehow stressing myself out? I think I'm annoying and bothersome, but my girlfriend says I'm just fine. I don't think so, I think I'm stressing everyone else out\nTherapist: I'm glad to hear you have friends and that your friends say they like you. Trust your own sense of who you are which tells you that something feels uneasy within yourself. Is the friend who says you're \"just fine\", very familiar with who you are?\"Friend\" is a broad category. She may not know you as fully as you know yourself. Basically, it is possible to be \"fine\" and have some inner stress. Follow your own thoughts and observations to more fully learn about yourself in ways your friend may not notice or be aware.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-somehow-stressing-myself-out", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Is it okay to date my ex-boyfriend\u2019s cousin? I have been dating my ex-boyfriend\u2019s cousin for a few years. We have gotten pretty serious. He wants to cut it off because people are giving him a hard time that our kids will be related to my ex.\nTherapist: Does your boyfriend agree with the other people's opinions or is the problem that he feels that doing what they want will be an easy way to stop hearing them say what he doesn't like hearing?Talk through whether he actually believes what the others are telling him or figures that complying will make them stop bothering him. Once the two of you understand what, if any, the differences are in the opinions you each have on the double relationship status, you'll be more clear whether the differences can be aligned somehow.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-okay-to-date-my-ex-boyfriend-s-cousin", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I know if I have depression? I'm almost never happy. Half of the time, I don't feel anything. I find it easy to make myself feel nothing. I know I push people away because it\u2019s easier. I just want answers. I'm sick of feeling this way. It\u2019s ruining my relationships with people.\nTherapist: The name of your condition matters much less than the descriptions you wrote of how you feel. Since you've observed how you sometimes interact with people and realize you aren't happy with the result, you've a very solid starting point for reflecting on your deeper wishes in relating to others. Theorizing as to \"why\" you feel that pushing people away is \"easier\", and easier than what?Googling the keywords of how you feel, may open a starting point for ideas on knowing yourself and what you wish for.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-know-if-i-have-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: My daughter is in her 30s, not married, and pregnant. How can I break the news to the family? She is living with her boyfriend of seven years. He is in therapy for depression and social anxiety. He hasn't worked in all this time.\nTherapist: Congrats on your upcoming grandchild!Does your daughter want you to break news of her pregnancy, to the family?Talk with your daughter first, whether or not she would like you to tell other family members. Also, given the other facts you mention in your post, if household and financial management are areas you feel your daughter is vulnerable, then bring up these topics too. Stay open minded about your daughter having views which are different from yours.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-daughter-is-in-her-30s-not-married-and-pregnant-how-can-i-break-the-news-to-the-family", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Do I have social anxiety? When I go to school, I feel like everyone is judging me, even my friends. I get overwhelmed which these thoughts and sometimes cannot get out of what I call a deep hole of thoughts. I barely go to any of our school dances because of all of the people. Not even when I am completely alone do these thoughts go away. I still feel like people can see me and are judging me.\nTherapist: It sounds like a couple of things are going on here; you are noticing yourself feeling judged by the people around you and that you are avoiding social activities and in addition to this you have intrusive thoughts that you are being judged, even when alone. It sounds like these thoughts are pretty distressing and you are wondering what is happening to you. Many people who come to therapy experience intrusive and distressing thoughts of various kinds, which often influence their behavior in ways that they may not like, such as leading them to isolate.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-social-anxiety-2", "topics": "Anxiety,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is always accusing me of not loving him. I love him so much, and I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: Hi Savannah, This is a pretty common issue; one person feels that they are doing a great job of being loving, yet their partner doesn't feel loved. The five languages are words, quality time, acts of service, gifts and touch. I recommend couples grab this book, sit down and figure out what their love languages are, and then...slowly...you start to ask for the kind of love you want, and you start to speak your partner's language a bit better. The most important part is to understand each other better and to know that there's nothing wrong with either of you, you're just speaking different languages. I bet he just needs you to \"speak his language\".", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-always-accusing-me-of-not-loving-him", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend says he doesn't like to do things with me because we fight too much. Sometimes, he stays out all night but doesn't tell me. We have a son together, and I get to stay home with him. He says I complain too much about what he's doing. I got pregnant after being together for a month. We moved in together when I had my son in July. Everything was great, and then he started the staying out. I just don't know if I'm doing something wrong.\nTherapist: Hi Oklahoma, Listen to him when he says this is how he is. For some reason, he is giving himself permission to detach from you and your son. This could be for several reasons; he may be avoiding intimacy and connection, he may be avoiding commitment, he may fear he isn't enough, or (and there is evidence of this one) he may have misogynist attitudes about male privilege that interfere with his ability to be the kind of supportive and respectful partner that you need. His response seems dismissive though, and this isn't a good sign. Any problem can be worked through if you have two people who care about, respect and listen to each other.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-says-he-doesn-t-like-to-do-things-with-me-because-we-fight-too-much", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I\u2019m afraid that I\u2019m gay. I've been going through a rough time lately. I been into nothing but women. I\u2019ve never thought about men until a week ago. I\u2019m very upset and depressed about this. It's not normal to me. I looked at gay porn more than once to prove that I\u2019m not gay. I get the same results each time, and I feel disgust. This is tough on me. I'm scared that I looked too many times. I keep thinking about it and shake all the time.\nTherapist: Hi Brookfield, It can be unsettling when we feel something as fundamental as our sexual orientation shifting. The truth is that, if we grew up in a society where there wasn't this categorization...if we felt free to explore and grow sexually, we might be surprised at who we are attracted to. You don't have to put yourself in a slot. Having said all that...just because you have thoughts about men or get turned on by gay porm doesn't mean you're gay. How does it feel to kiss a man, to touch a man, as compared with a woman...sometimes this feels like such a big and forbidden step that it's a barrier to discovering ourselves. I wish you well as you do exactly what you are supposed to be doing...exploring and discovering yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-afraid-that-i-m-gay", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend says he doesn't like to do things with me because we fight too much. Sometimes, he stays out all night but doesn't tell me. We have a son together, and I get to stay home with him. He says I complain too much about what he's doing. I got pregnant after being together for a month. We moved in together when I had my son in July. Everything was great, and then he started the staying out. I just don't know if I'm doing something wrong.\nTherapist: Congrats on the birth of your son!Your situation sounds painful, lonely, and isolating. The feelings and ideas you describe here would only be arising from within you because they are at the very least, partly true. Ask your boyfriend if he is willing to listen and understand your point of view. If these discussions continuously include him blaming you for having your own feelings and expecting him to more actively be a part of your and your son's life, then you'll need to start valuing your feelings and what is best for you and your son, by yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-says-he-doesn-t-like-to-do-things-with-me-because-we-fight-too-much", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I\u2019m afraid that I\u2019m gay. I've been going through a rough time lately. I been into nothing but women. I\u2019ve never thought about men until a week ago. I\u2019m very upset and depressed about this. It's not normal to me. I looked at gay porn more than once to prove that I\u2019m not gay. I get the same results each time, and I feel disgust. This is tough on me. I'm scared that I looked too many times. I keep thinking about it and shake all the time.\nTherapist: Are you able to give yourself some peace of mind while you take the time to further address whether or not you are gay?Whether or not and to what degree a person accepts their sexuality, depends on dense factors such as the culture of your family, the beliefs about gay people with which you were brought up, and your own tolerance for being a unique individual. Examining these factors, whether inwardly by yourself, in online blogs and sites, or live with other people, requires patience and effort. The more you are willing to commit to figuring out your own truth, the greater is your chance of finding it!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-afraid-that-i-m-gay", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less confused about my feelings towards anything? I don't know how to notice or express my feelings besides anger. That's really the only one i feel.\nTherapist: Well, then give yourself some credit for noticing that you recognize at least one feeling that you have!What is your own theory as to what is difficult to know your feelings? Sometimes the family in which someone grew up, did all they could to stop the kids from knowing who they were. In some families there were very severe consequences if a child spoke up with an independent mind. Also, spend some time with yourself just enjoying who you are. By having a good time being with yourself, you may increase your self-appreciation and this will go a long way to believing that your feelings are worth knowing and stating.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-confused-about-my-feelings-towards-anything", "topics": "Anger Management,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with my paranoia? I'm a little paranoid. My mind does get the best of me. One night, I put chairs under all of my door knobs because I thought someone might break in. I also think a lot, which is probably the reason for the paranoia. I can't stand loud noises, like the sound of cars going by. The grocery store is too noisy, and I feel like people are looking at me.\nTherapist: Paranoid people don't realize they are paranoid. They believe their actions to be reasonable responses to potential threats. From what you write, you are aware that your actions may be understood as extreme. This way you will become more tolerant of what very well be your natural tendencies. One possible way of feeling better is if you would accept the answers you've developed so far for yourself. They may be a little unusual compared to what we consider mainstream.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-my-paranoia", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is always accusing me of not loving him. I love him so much, and I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: Does he tell you a reason as to why he feels you don't love him?Ask him this so you will clearly know his definition of \"love\".", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-always-accusing-me-of-not-loving-him", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I feel so empty even though I'm only in my early teens? My life is completely normal, yet I feel empty inside. I feel as if I already know why I'm alive: to reproduce and die.\nTherapist: Are there any times or moments in which you feel other than \"empty\"? Start with knowing the context of when you feel something other than empty. If there is no recent example, then in your mind, go back in time to think of when you felt something other than empty. How did you come to your conclusion that your life purpose is to reproduce and die? If this is what your parents, siblings and extended family believe, it is possible that you have a broader view of yourself and haven't yet uncovered a way of defining your own philosophy of living.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-feel-so-empty-even-though-i-m-only-in-my-early-teens", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: I'm just not happy with my marriage. He is verbally abusive. When he gets mad, he just yells at me. At times, I feel scared.\nTherapist: Good for you on recognizing your own feelings. Often in an abusive relationship, the person who is being abused, starts doubting themselves and starts tolerating, then accepting abuse. Marriage is based in love and feeling taken care of by the partner. If you feel ready, tell him the way you feel and pay attention to how willing your husband is to being aware that he yells and that you feel scared.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-just-not-happy-with-my-marriage", "topics": "Domestic Violence,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Am I somehow stressing myself out? I think I'm annoying and bothersome, but my girlfriend says I'm just fine. I don't think so, I think I'm stressing everyone else out\nTherapist: \"Where you put your attention is where you will go\". I forget who said this first, but it's very powerful. If all you think about and talk about is how annoying you think you might be, that will get annoying. She seems to put far less emphasis on your possibly annoying traits. My hunch is that your most annoying trait might be your negative self-talk. How ironic is that?There's another irony here...your goal is to be a better partner...but when you are self-critical, your focus is on you, not her.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-somehow-stressing-myself-out", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I get my fianc\u00e9 to notice me again? My fianc\u00e9 and I have almost the best relationship every girl wants, but lately it's changed. I get less attention and little to no intercourse. We live two hours from family, and when I leave home to see family, he'll text me saying \"whatever\" and \"leave me alone.\" But when we're together, everything is okay. I love this man, but I just don't know what to do anymore.\nTherapist: Hello, It doesn't feel good when it seems that your partner no longer cares or cares less for you, especially if your feelings have not changed. It can be scary, frustrating, and lonely. There may be several reasons for his actions, some of which may have nothing to do with how he feels for you. For example, you may say something such as, \"I feel confused that we are rarely intimate and I'm wondering if you've also noticed this change\" versus \"You are never intimate with me anymore.\" I like to ask open-ended questions instead of yes and no questions. Lastly,\u00a0ask yourself (and possibly him) what part you play in the recent changes.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-my-fianc-to-notice-me-again", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I forgive myself? Something happened this summer that I cannot forgive myself for. When I think about what happened, I feel ashamed and guilty even though my loved ones forgave me.\nTherapist: What a beautiful discussion of guilt and shame Lynda offers! Those two demons start out as pesky and little when we are young, then grow with us to become quite formidable. Here goes:Step One: Say what you did and the damage it caused. Of course, sometimes the apology is not accepted and no way to atone is offered. Give this a try the next time you\u2019re reluctant to let yourself off the hook. You might surprise yourself when how benevolent you can be when invited.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-forgive-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How do I learn to let go of past problems and live one day at a time? I would like to be able to have more positive relationships in the present.\nTherapist: Staying present is an attitude most of us aspire to, and most of us have to work at it\u2014certainly at first. I\u2019m here to tell you that living in the now or being mindful is a skill anyone can learn. Richo asks that we don\u2019t beat ourselves up about dwelling on past events. Awareness is the opposite of distraction and stuffing. Practice, practice, practice.)Just as two-year-olds are able to walk confidently after hundreds of hours of practice, you\u2019ll be able to stay in the here and now as long as you want after trying and failing many, many times.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-learn-to-let-go-of-past-problems-and-live-one-day-at-a-time", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I don't know if I should end my relationship or try and stick through it. I have been dating a guy for two years. I think I love him, but I don't know any more. I am in my late teens, and I have been living with him for most of our relationship. I have been talking to a guy friend, and I feel more loved by him than my boyfriend.\nTherapist: Hi Michigan, Relationships are so sparkly for a few years, and then things start to feel different. Having said that, it seems as though you are missing something in this relationship that you need; you don't feel loved enough right now. The strength of your relationship is more clear when people know what the expectations are. Let him know what you need, and see if he gets it. You have choices to make and there is no wrong choice. But often it's worth it to see how good something can be before you bail.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-know-if-i-should-end-my-relationship-or-try-and-stick-through-it", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Can a therapist have a client admitted to an eating disorder treatment center if the client does not want to go? nan\nTherapist: The answer varies depending on what State you are in, whether the eating disorder treatment center is part of a larger psychiatric facility, and the diagnosis which the therapist states describes your psychological and emotional condition leading to the decision to admit. Also keep in mind that all practitioners have license to judge whether or not a person fits a category of psychological problem. This is adds another variable to the answer of your question. Basically, there are many variables and not one definite answer to your question.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-a-therapist-have-a-client-admitted-to-an-eating-disorder-treatment-center-if-the-client-does-not-want-to-go", "topics": "Eating Disorders,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: How can I forgive myself? Something happened this summer that I cannot forgive myself for. When I think about what happened, I feel ashamed and guilty even though my loved ones forgave me.\nTherapist: A lot of times it is not about forgiveness but learning from experiences. As an example, as a child we continously fall in an effort to learn how to walk. Then when we begin walking we know we have to put one foot in front of the other in order to move forward. Experiences allow us to grow, find a balance and what to do and what not to do in order to move forward. On the positive side you now know the consequences as for your actions not to take the same course. Forgiveness comes with time as you \"learn how to walk again.\"", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-forgive-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with bad thoughts? People have been calling me names, and I have had enough of it. I cannot stand it anymore I'm done. I have told someone this, and that is why I am writing this. The thoughts are awful.\nTherapist: It's sounds like you are feeling pretty overwhelmed with intrusive thoughts and are feeling very criticized by others as well. I think it is great that you are reaching out and I can tell that you want this to change. Working with a competent therapist may be a good option for getting some more clarity about what is going on, developing ways to cope, and eventually getting relief from these overwhelming experiences.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-bad-thoughts", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: I'm in a lesbian relationship, and my mother doesn't really approve. nan\nTherapist: It can be very difficult, when our parents do not approve of significant aspects of who we are. As children, we need our parents approval, and as adults, we often still desire it. Some things I am wondering about are, how do you feel about your sexuality and your relationship with your mother? Is there anything you would like to have different in your relationship with your mother? I don't know if these questions resonate with you or not, but if there are some conflicted feelings in regards to your mother, working with a competent therapist may be a good way of getting clarity about how you would like to move forward.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-in-a-lesbian-relationship-and-my-mother-doesn-t-really-approve", "topics": "LGBTQ,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I feel like there is a wedge between my daughter and I. We live with my ex-partner\u2019s sister and her husband. We have been there for five years now. They are Hispanic and talk to my daughter in their language. Sometimes they overstep their balance between aunt and uncle and reach into my role as a parent. They neglect to see this. I do, and it reflects in my child's behavior. She sees them as stable but is upset that her dad isn't here, and my intuition tells me she blames me to a degree because she doesn't know about his alcohol addictions.\nTherapist: Hi New York, I'm happy to hear that your daughter doesn't know about her dad's addictions. Although you don't say how old she is,\u00a0and I imagine that at some point in her life she will be ready to know the truth, I trust your instinct that now is not the time. Children tend to blame themselves for a parent's absence. These children need extra love and support wherever they can get it. I understand that having your ex partner's relatives in the same home would make it uncomfortable at times. In general, the more adults around loving and supporting a child, the better.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-there-is-a-wedge-between-my-daughter-and-i", "topics": "Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I feel guilty because I didn't say no to a guy's advances. I was in a situation with a guy. He\u2019s my brother\u2019s friend and kind of like a brother to me. He invited me over to hang out, and then came on to me. I was instantly terrified to say no, and I gave in. I don't know what's wrong with me. I can't figure out why I'm afraid to say no. This is giving me a lot of guilt and depression.\nTherapist: Hi Tennessee, There is nothing wrong with you. There are many good reasons why you didn't say no. You didn't say no because you were caught off guard and unprepared; there is no place in life that teaches girls or boys how to manage it when someone crashes a sexual boundary. It was his job to get your consent first. What would you have to believe in order to be confident enough to say no? I love that you want to do some work here to strengthen your sexual boundaries, and I urge a widespread conversation about what consent it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-guilty-because-i-didn-t-say-no-to-a-guy-s-advances", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Thoughts of afterlife causes anxiety. Sometimes I can't stop thinking about life after death. I was raised in a religion that teaches that we will live on forever either in hell or in heaven.  When I think of living forever (even if it is in heaven which should be good), I feel overwhelmed. I don't like the thought of living forever and ever and ever. Sometimes I just can't get the thought out of my mind and the thoughts lead to panic and anxiety.  Am I crazy? I don't think these thoughts are normal.\nTherapist: Hi California, What you're experiencing is indeed anxiety; it's very common. We often spend TOO MUCH time worrying about things that happened or might happen. They will use anything they can as evidence to convince you. You could have that thought (pick up that glass) a hundred times a day and, as long as you put it right back on the shelf, it's not a problem. It's not enough; you're looking for more tools to get that glass back on the shelf. You can learn to look for concrete evidence of fear's lies and gain back control over your thoughts.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/thoughts-of-afterlife-causes-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle my binge eating? I have a problem with binge eating, especially during times of stress. I binge eat and feel so overwhelmed with shame and disappointment that I end up going to the gym and trying to exercise the calories off. I am in my late 20s, and I have been dealing with this since I was a teenager. Are there any coping mechanisms I can use to break this cycle?\nTherapist: In dealing with an eating disorder you are far from alone. It is more common than you might think and tied to so many variables that it is easy for an individual to become overwhelmed in trying to navigate the influences of such variables. There is a large body of evidence supporting the use of this approach to alleviating many of the aspects you identified in your post as well of a wide variety of tools that you can choose from and utilize that are able to practiced and assimilated into your daily tool box of coping mechanisms that end up becoming new behaviors and ways of thinking about issues that become automatic, the best possible outcome you can hope for if you want the solution to be sustainable.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-my-binge-eating", "topics": "Stress,Eating Disorders"}, {"text": "User: Our grandson wants to talk to his estranged mom. We are the legal guardianship of our grandson. He has been acting out, and he wants to talk to his mom that has not talked to him since before last year. How are we to handle this?\nTherapist: Hi Boone, This depends a lot on his age and the situation. Some questions... Was the parent harmful to the child? What does he want to get out of a visit with the parent? There are many possible goals this child might have in mind. This will give you a sense of what's missing for the child; what need are they trying to fill. Once you determine the risk of the child's need not being met, then you decide whether it makes sense. When a child is separated from a parent, they tend to blame themselves.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/our-grandson-wants-to-talk-to-his-estranged-mom", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do I stay when the spark is gone? We had our first kid 15 years ago, and sex has been nonexistent ever since. It only happens every three or four months. We have been to counseling, and I have been told over and over again she will come around. She hasn't, and I'm intimately lonely! I think it's time to move on, but how do I do that without hurting my kids?\nTherapist: Hi Pocahontas, This is a painful situation. It's also possible that your partner has hormonal issues, pain issues, \u00a0sexual dysfunction or is asexual. Only you can decide what is right for you. Did the couple therapist help you to see the dynamic in your relationship? One good way to make sure you \"get\" is to \"give\" (and I mean give what she wants, not sex). If this is all you want, I'm not sure I can do it. See if she does seek help to address an issue that is hers.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stay-when-the-spark-is-gone", "topics": "Intimacy,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with sexual tension? I have been experiencing a lot of sexual tension with a lot of the guys that I talk to nowadays. I keep imagining having sex with them. I have never had sex before, nor have I had a boyfriend. I feel lonely and empty. I feel like my body is not okay, and I am missing something. I talk to so many boys in school, and I always fantasize about half of them. I want this feeling to stop because it is interfering with my time to study since most of the time, I am busy thinking about sex.\nTherapist: We have a built-in desire to connect sexually with others, because it feels good, to keep procreation going, and mostly to \"connect\" with other people, because connecting with others makes us feel fulfilled and valuable. Maybe your body is telling you it wants to dive into that water and taste it instead of just staring at it? You want to know yourself but you can't learn about yourself in a vacuum. But I do want you to be safe...whatever that means to you). With each encounter you have with other people (sexual or not), you will learn more about yourself and what you want, both sexually and just in relationship or friendship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-sexual-tension", "topics": "Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: Why does it feel as if self-harm is an addiction? I self-harm, and I stop for awhile. Then when I see something sad or depressing, I automatically want to self-harm.\nTherapist: In a way, self-harm can present somewhat like an addiction. If a person was dealing with depression or high anxiety, that might be misinterpreted by the brain as a way to help oneself feel better and a new neural network or map might form (addiction) that would utilize this new behavior. Consider working with someone who can both have you work on and address those items that trigger your behavior and the root causes, in this case sadness or depression, and second find someone who can help give you alternatives that take into account the neurological requirement by replacing the behavior with another behavior (such as snapping a rubber band on the wrist) and working to extinguish the unwanted behavior. Someone who is trained in Dialectic Behavior Therapy and/or Interpersonal Neurobiology would most likely have the skills and means available to address this with you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-does-it-feel-as-if-self-harm-is-an-addiction", "topics": "Addiction,Depression,Self-harm"}, {"text": "User: I feel insecure, on edge, and drink too much. I don't think my wife truly wants our relationship even though she says she does. I have turned to drinking to help relieve my repressed stress about this and other issues. I have had a drinking problem for a few years. I feel the reason I drink is not just because I like to, but because I have lately been on edge. I\u2019m paranoid about driving on main roads.\nTherapist: Given the description you have posted here, it may be time to find someone to work with. First and foremost, look into working with someone who specializes in working with individuals with challenges surrounding drinking. This would need to be assessed first since if it has been ongoing, it may be making the situation worse and given the time it has been utilized as a coping mechanism, there is reason to believe that the structure of your brain may have been effected as has been demonstrated by current neurological research. There are also other tools designed to help repair damaged relationships.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-insecure-on-edge-and-drink-too-much", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I be more open and honest with my dad? I avoid talking to him because he always makes me more upset. I can't be honest with him about anything because he is always rude to me.\nTherapist: It's a dilemma; you want your dad to know how he's hurting you but you don't feel safe enough to say anything to him. Your reaction is understandable; it's his responsibility as a parent to work harder than you to create that safe place for you to be open. Your dad is your dad, and waiting for him to change won't really help. While your response of avoiding him is understandable, I wonder what effect it has on your dad. Can you be honest about how you're feeling? I imagine it would come out differently because you're a few generations younger than me, but put that into your own words.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-more-open-and-honest-with-my-dad", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I become more understanding? nan\nTherapist: Sometimes I picture it like a salt shaker. Maybe you want to get closer to someone and resentment is in the way? What do you risk if you're more understanding? In therapy, you would get help looking at these questions. The next step is working to tolerate that feeling you're avoiding. Once you know where you want to be with your thoughts, it takes practise, repetition, to teach yourself new truths about how safe it is to allow yourself to be more understanding and let the wall come down.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-become-more-understanding", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I unblock my memories? As a child, my parents injured my brother, so they went to prison. I was there when he had gotten hurt, but I can't seem to remember. I also can't remember being with them quite well. It's a blur.\nTherapist: It's important to know that there are counselors who are trained in working with survivors of trauma and you can get help. To recover them can be a slow process done by a trained professional that you trust. When you are ready and feel safe, those memories can be recovered and can be integrated with other memories. This will help to lessen the potency of the memory, help to make sense of what has happened, and allow you to begin the healing process. Check into therapist who are trained in EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-unblock-my-memories", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Is this depression? I feel like I am internally screaming all the time. Externally, I am calm, but I have this intense, unidentifiable emotion constantly. I don't feel sad. I don't cry a lot. I feel rather emotionally distant other than the internal screaming. It kind of feels like I'm a caged animal.\nTherapist: As far as the formal diagnosis of depression goes, it would be hard to determine without more information. It sounds like you are noticing that there is a significant difference between how you are feeling on the inside and how you express yourself outwardly. Part of you is quite distressed and yet it remains invisible to the outside world, almost as if it is trapped inside of your body. Many people who are depressed experience such things as intrusive thoughts, emotional numbness, difficulty expressing themselves, and bodily tension (caged animal?).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-this-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I become more understanding? nan\nTherapist: I like your beautiful question!Start by understanding yourself and your own inner knowledge of who you are and what direction your life must take in order for you to feel comfortable and fulfilled. Understanding oneself is a life long activity, even a necessity so that you are able to sense the truth of another person. As long as you are taking steps in the direction of self-knowing, you will gradually improve and increase the way and the range of understanding of other people and our world.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-become-more-understanding", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I unblock my memories? As a child, my parents injured my brother, so they went to prison. I was there when he had gotten hurt, but I can't seem to remember. I also can't remember being with them quite well. It's a blur.\nTherapist: Sorry to hear of having witnessed violence within your family when you were very young. Your blocked memories are a self-protection from the enormous emotional pain and feeling de-stabilized by realizing that the people whom you expected to trust, are harmful. Probably the best way of finding your way back to those times, is by paying attention to all of who you are today. The more intently and with loving interest you are able to notice yourself, you will be gradually dissolving the layers of protective thoughts about intimacy being unsafe. Since trust is what was violated while you were young, you will be developing a new model for trusting yourself and others.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-unblock-my-memories", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over social anxiety? I have not had a friend since I was 19. I don't go anywhere, and I have no job, all because I'm afraid of people.\nTherapist: Individual and/or group therapy can be a powerful antidote for social anxiety. Often in therapy, the things that tend to get in the way of our securing satisfying and lasting personal relationships will appear in some way in the therapy relationship and a competent therapist will be able to help you work through this anxiety, in a sensitive way, and eventually encourage you to seek out the personal relationships that you want. In group therapy, you have an opportunity to have a relationship not only with the therapist, but several other people who are all in the group in order to give and receive mutual support to one another.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-social-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I feel insecure, on edge, and drink too much. I don't think my wife truly wants our relationship even though she says she does. I have turned to drinking to help relieve my repressed stress about this and other issues. I have had a drinking problem for a few years. I feel the reason I drink is not just because I like to, but because I have lately been on edge. I\u2019m paranoid about driving on main roads.\nTherapist: Sorry hearing about the big amount of stress which you are feeling at this time. From what you write, the emotional pain and helplessness you feel currently, seem too much to know about all at once. One possibility is to accept your feelings of hurt and insecurity. If they start feeling overwhelming, then maybe too, you can distract yourself for a while from the intensity by engaging in an activity that is not self-harming. After all, you are the most important person in your life, so keep yourself safe and healthy!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-insecure-on-edge-and-drink-too-much", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Why am I so mad? My issue isn't resisting angry urges; it's the anger itself. My rage is extreme and vastly disproportionate to the direct stressor. It causes violent thoughts, but I never act. I stay lucid enough to know the rage is violent, not me. I don't want to drown myself in anger and resentment.\nTherapist: Knowing how you feel and also being able to stabilize yourself to act upon the tremendous anger you feel, are fine qualities. Anger, whatever the magnitude, generally reflects emotional pain that has not yet been placed into words. Try thinking over your growing up years because maybe you will discover certain repeated dynamics which upset you and that no one helped you feel secure through such times. Also, if either of your parents drank too much and raged when they were drunk, you may be repeating their patterns of how to respond to situations. Even without drinking, the response patterns of yelling and throwing things are frightening enough to leave a permanent memory.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-so-mad", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: How do I get back to my fun, happy self again? I always see the worst end of things. My boyfriend and I aren't talking, and I swear he's leaving me. I keep failing my road test, and I see my future crumble. I have no desire for friends. I pushed my best friend away after Christmas, and I have no desire to fix it or make new friends. My aunt died, and I cry all the time, even if I burn my lunch.\nTherapist: I really love that you're taking responsibility for your pessimism here. Then the brother is asked why he's so happy in a room full of manure, and he says \"With all this sh-t, there's gotta be a pony in here somewhere!\"Happiness is a state of mind, and I hear you saying that you used to be happy, so maybe this means you believe it's possible. Research on depression shows us that it is very linked to pessimism. If all you see is roughness, backup and walk around; the view will change. not your fault (tons of people fail road tests). bleeding into other areas of our lives, and 3.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-back-to-my-fun-happy-self-again", "topics": "Depression,Grief and Loss"}, {"text": "User: Is it bad that I'm giving my ex-boyfriend another chance? I was in a relationship with him for three years. My mom doesn't like it because she thinks I'm making a mistake. He got married a few months after we broke up, and now he is divorced. I forgave him for what he did in the past, and he says he\u2019s sorry and he really loves me. I love him too, but is it bad that I'm giving him a second chance again?\nTherapist: Hey, it might be mistake in the end but this is a risk you want to take and you get to make your own mistakes. Maybe she is worried you'll be hurt again. Can you understand where she's coming from? Can you help your mom understand that you take responsibility for your part in how it went wrong; that the picture you may have painted of him isn't the total picture?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-bad-that-i-m-giving-my-ex-boyfriend-another-chance", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I love myself? I was anxious to go to middle school. I was afraid of what people might say about me, so when school started, I wasn't acting like myself. I was quiet, which I'm usually not. I didn't talk to anybody and didn't have any friends. Then a few years later, my grandma died. I really became depressed and stop going to school for a little. I hated myself and still do. I just need help. I need someone to care for me. I need someone to show that they care.\nTherapist: No one deserves to feel alone, or like they hate themselves. I'm glad you wrote this question, because a lot of people have this feeling sometimes. I can tell that you're smart, because you seem to sense that the two things you wrote about are connected...you \"not being yourself\", and then how you felt when your grandma died. The older you get, the more you will have to take charge of letting people know what you need. When you started middle school, it sounds like you changed; you got more quiet, right?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-love-myself", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why do I keep letting myself get cheated on? I've been with the mother of my child for years.\nTherapist: I would think that you hold little self worth and feel that you are not worthy of better. I would suggest that you get to know yourself. What is holding you to this relationship other than your child? What have gone on in the relationship that makes you think or feel you deserve such disrespect?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-keep-letting-myself-get-cheated-on", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I create a better relationship with my adoptive mother? We just cannot seem to get along. I cannot have a conversation with her without it turning into World War 3. She treats me like I have no right to an opinion and never really lets me speak. My real mother cares and tries to help me, but she can't do much, because my adoptive mother won't listen to her either.\nTherapist: Going to see a experience counselor would be my advice. You will have a neutral person that can listen to both sides and help you all find a common ground of understanding. If she doesn't agree to counseling, really the only person you can change is you. I would suggest that you approach her with love and let her know what you appreciate about her, let her know the great things she have done that could not be replaced or forgotten however you want your relationship to get better than it has been lately.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-create-a-better-relationship-with-my-adoptive-mother", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Why am I all of a sudden having issues communicating with the guy I\u2019m dating? I started seeing this guy that I met at a mutual friend\u2019s place. He recently broke up with his ex-girlfriend and started seeing me. I am still seeing him, but things have changed because I am at a loss for words. He just makes me nervous and gives me the butterflies.\nTherapist: Sounds like you are struggling with your own negative thoughts. As you stated, everything was great then you started having low self-esteem thoughts and thinking. What is contributing to these negative thoughts? His actions or your past experiences with unhealthy relationships would be my question..", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-all-of-a-sudden-having-issues-communicating-with-the-guy-i-m-dating", "topics": "Relationships,Anxiety,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with posttraumatic stress disorder and its triggers? I am a survivor of multiple sexual abuse/rape experiences. Triggers are having an effect on my daily life and my sexual relationship with my partner. I'm trying to learn to cope with them.\nTherapist: Having PTSD from multiple abusive sexual experiences is very overwhelming for one to handle alone. You may need the guidance, experience and support of a professional to identify all the triggers that effect you and obtain the best coping skills that would work for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-and-its-triggers", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How do I get to know myself? I am a single mother. As a child, I was molested by my mother's boyfriend. I never knew my father. I started having children at 18 right after high school. After having children, I completely lost myself and gave all of my focus on my children. Now my children are getting older, but I still don't know myself. I've had several attempts at relationships, and they all fail. I stopped caring about a lot after my children's father left me. I fell into a spiral and got depressed.\nTherapist: What your are experience is normal for most women. We usually forget about self and totally focus on our children putting our personal wants and needs aside. So to answer your question of how do you get to know yourself I usually do a 6 session course with my client by having them answer questions such as the following in the first session: \u00a0What do I love? ( What 3 things have I accomplished in my life that I'm most proud of? How have that event affected my life today? Most women feel awkward at first, but I remind them that the truth is that only to the extent that you are able to love and value yourself, you are to love and support others.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-to-know-myself", "topics": "Depression,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: If I'm not with my boyfriend, I have emotional breakdowns. I\u2019ve been with my boyfriend for a year and a half. He loves me a lot, and I love him. It hurts to be apart from him for so long. It hurts all over, and then I feel like it won't last.\nTherapist: I would suggest that you look up the word codependency and it's characteristics. See if you relate to those characteristics. I have a feeling \u00a0you have suffered some form of loss in your life that you have not dealt with properly. For some reason you are depending on your boyfriend to fill that loss. Considering working with a counseling to work through your emotions and resolve any lingering issues.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/if-i-m-not-with-my-boyfriend-i-have-emotional-breakdowns", "topics": "Anxiety,Relationships,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Is this depression? I feel like I am internally screaming all the time. Externally, I am calm, but I have this intense, unidentifiable emotion constantly. I don't feel sad. I don't cry a lot. I feel rather emotionally distant other than the internal screaming. It kind of feels like I'm a caged animal.\nTherapist: It is hard to make a definite diagnosis however I would say \u00a0that it could be and or a combination of depression, stress, PTSD, etc. More background information would have to be needed. One thing I would say is that you really need to seek guidance from a professional to work through these symptoms. If what you described as a caged animal is released, all the crying, sadness, and controllable emotions will come out.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-this-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why do my boyfriend and I have such trouble communicating? We\u2019ve been together almost three years. We argue and he ends it by telling me he doesn\u2019t love me. It's hurtful because I am all about resolving the problem, and he dwells on the issue even if I drop what he's done and just swallow my pride and say I am sorry. How can this be resolved? We have kids, and I don't want a broken family because we can't communicate.\nTherapist: Under duress the very youngest parts of you and your boyfriend emerge. So, while you still look like grown ups, your actions and words are motivated by very early preverbal parts of both of you. In simple terms it is as if two infants somehow acquire the ability to say words but they are motivated by very basic early wounds that were created due to deficits in what was able to be done for each of you, and likely understandable in terms of caregiver's life experience, and that still fell short of what you needed. You are both still trying to get very early needs met.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-my-boyfriend-and-i-have-such-trouble-communicating", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop being so angry? I have not been able to really sleep. I stay up all times of the night not even knowing why. Every day, I feel like I have anger inside of me. I have a little family, but I can't open up to them like I want to. I have a son, and I feel that I take my anger out on him by screaming at him.\nTherapist: Best question is....what are you so angry about? You can't stop being so angry until you figure out what is the root of your anger. If you feel like you have anger inside, while I am sure you do. Taking it out on your son is only passing on the hurt and anger. Get some professional help so that you can be happy and have a happy child.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-being-so-angry", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: I've been having breakdowns for no reason at all. I start to think of an issue that doesn't even matter or something bad that happened years ago. Then, I cry, pull at my hair, plug my ears, hit myself, and throw things. In loud public places, I get on edge and start being sarcastic and moody. I have an awful fear of people leaving me (which normally ends up happening) and I feel like I'm too clingy.\nTherapist: There is a reason you are having breakdowns. I can't agree that they happen for\u00a0\"no reason at all\". Finding out the reason is going to be your biggest challenge because that may require you to dig deep into your past, uncover hurtful experiences, or\u00a0recognize something that would be extremely pain. However, if you don't find professional help to carefully guide you through whatever you may\u00a0confront,\u00a0the symptoms mentioned will continue and may even get worse.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-ve-been-having-breakdowns-for-no-reason-at-all", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend isn't sexually performing like he did before I found out he was cheating. Now that the other girl is out of the picture, our sex life isn't the same. Is it because he is still thinking about the other girl?\nTherapist: Or...better yet... Is it you still thinking about the other girl? I am sure his cheating hurt you emotionally and\u00a0may have\u00a0affected your sexual performance\u00a0as well. Make sure the other girl is out the picture on your end as well. Sounds like something the both of you need to have a calm and adult conversation about.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-isn-t-sexually-performing-like-he-did-before-i-found-out-he-was-cheating", "topics": "Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: I think my trust issues are going to end my relationship early. As I was growing up, my mother and father always fought. With that, I grew trust issues. I think it's going to affect my relationship now and end it sooner then I want to. I try not to let it affect me, but I can\u2019t.\nTherapist: If you thing your trust issues are going to end or affect your relationship it will because you are being baggage from your parents into this relationship. Don't allow their problems to become your problem. You didn't mention that your partner in your present relationship have done anything to make you not trust them. Like in the court of law, if no evidence....find not guilty. Don't make them pay the consequences as if guilty of your parents unhealthy behavior.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-think-my-trust-issues-are-going-to-end-my-relationship-early", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with the anger problems I've gained from my soon-to-be husband? I been having anger problems a lot lately. It only takes one word wrongly said to set me off. I use to not be like this until I got with my soon-to-be husband. I think his mood and rage/anger problems have rubbed off on me a lot. I don't get nearly as bad as he does, but I yell almost constantly and I can't seem to just stop. I have two young babies that have to hear this, and I don't want my girls growing up with a mommy like I have been lately.\nTherapist: With me knowing that\u00a0a healthy relationship\u00a0usually includes respect, trust, appreciation, companionship, spiritual solidarity, domestic support, feeling of being cherished, and \u00a0sensuous affection, I am wondering if you are lacking in several if not all of these needs in your present relationship. Before he becomes your husband, you should examine these areas and see if they are high in rating. I would suggest relationship counseling, specifically pre-marital. Not be surprised if through the process you realize that this relationship is not the best choice for you and your children.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-the-anger-problems-i-ve-gained-from-my-soon-to-be-husband", "topics": "Anger Management,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it healthy to embarrass a child as punishment? My grandson's step-mother sends him to school with a pink Barbie backpack as a form of punishment.\nTherapist: Parents are to teach discipline to\u00a0children, not punishment. There is a different in discipline and punishment. Punishment could have long term affects on a child's self image and growth. It can lead to others issues such as bullying from peers as well. Whatever your grandson has done, there is a much better way of getting him to understand that his actions are not acceptable. Encourage the step-mother to build a positive relationship with him, this way he will learn to respect and trust her. She may need to attend a parenting class for blended families.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-healthy-to-embarrass-a-child-as-punishment", "topics": "Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell my parents that I'm depressed and need help? I hide it from everyone because I'm scared of the reactions I'll get. Last time I tried telling my parents, it was a huge argument about me being too young to be depressed (I\u2019m a legal adult), calling me ungrateful, and telling me that if I can't handle things now, it's only going to get worse in the future (which is turning out to be true). I'm just really tired, and sadly, I can't afford the help I need on my own.\nTherapist: Don't think that you can't afford the help you need on your own. There are several counselors that see people on a sliding scale that can be as low as $5 (based on your income). It sounds like you know what you are experiencing and know that you need someone to talk to, someone\u00a0that is willing to listen. Your parents\u00a0may not\u00a0understand what your are feeling right now and that is not totally abnormal. I would encourage you to seek help immediately so you can live the best live you can...which is not being depressed.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-my-parents-that-i-m-depressed-and-need-help", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression"}, {"text": "User: I have several issues like I don't like people. I feel like they are talking about me and making fun of me. When I look people in the eyes I have voices that tell me to hurt them and if I don't stop looking at who I am talking to it gets so loud I can't hear what they are saying. I just stay away from people to avoid this. Every day I wake up it's like another day.\nTherapist: Sounds like you are dealing with a lot within your self which is causing you great pain. I would suggest that first you get a full physical evaluation to make sure that you are ok physically. Then getting a mental evaluation as well from a psychiatrist. Seeing both would help rule out any physically or psychologically causes to your symptoms. After getting these evaluations, your physician should be able to help guide you on what treatments would be the best to help with your everyday challenges your are facing. Whether treatment includes medication and/or psychotherapist would be discussed.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/people-make-me-sick", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm not sure if I want to trust my husband again. My husband used a lot of negative words to hurt me, and I moved out. He is seeing a counselor and wants another chance to make things right. I'm not sure if I trust that he will not go back to his old ways.\nTherapist: That is something that most men struggle with doing at times. However remember that a person can only do\u00a0to you\u00a0what you\u00a0allow\u00a0them to do in relationships. Did you lose yourself in the relationship and it became just one sided? Did you allow him to make you doubt yourself? In others words, if you do decide to give him another chance,\u00a0what would you do different? With an increase in your self worth and confidence, you\u00a0will know\u00a0what to do\u00a0if\u00a0his actions are true\u00a0or\u00a0if\u00a0with dishonest intentions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-not-sure-if-i-want-to-trust-my-husband-again", "topics": "Marriage,Relationship Dissolution ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle my binge eating? I have a problem with binge eating, especially during times of stress. I binge eat and feel so overwhelmed with shame and disappointment that I end up going to the gym and trying to exercise the calories off. I am in my late 20s, and I have been dealing with this since I was a teenager. Are there any coping mechanisms I can use to break this cycle?\nTherapist: Hello,This question describes a very typical setup of what is called the \u00a0Binge, Repent, Repeat cycle. This means that typically after you binge, you experience emotions as you described \"shame and disappointment\" and then because of these emotions you \"repent\" (i.e. vow to never binge again, promise to \"do better,\" go to the gym, etc.) and then ultimately end up bingeing again. There are many coping mechanisms for binge eating and one of the best is actually attempting to NORMALIZE eating. I would be more than happy to assist you if you ever have any questions or want to reach out to somebody.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-my-binge-eating", "topics": "Stress,Eating Disorders"}, {"text": "User: I'm scared to tell my family that I'm bisexual. My parents seem okay with other sexualities, but normally they only talk about being gay. When they do talk about bisexuality, they say things like \u201cthey'll do anything\u201d or things that make me very uncomfortable because I am bisexual. I don't know if I am ready to come out to them.\nTherapist: Coming out to family members can cause a lot of anxiety. However, \u00a0although I cannot promise what their reaction will be, the benefit is that you will no longer have to hide who you are. Perhaps researching or getting information on bisexuality can help your family understand what it truly is to be bisexual. Many times, \u00a0people are just not educated on certain things.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-scared-to-tell-my-family-that-i-m-bisexual", "topics": "Family Conflict,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my posttraumatic stress disorder without my parents knowing about it? I've had posttraumatic stress disorder for years without my parents ever finding out. I want to overcome it, but it\u2019s so vivid, it\u2019s like it\u2019s happening again. I'm scared and paranoid. I have depression, which I have been struggling with since a young age.\nTherapist: Unfortunately, ptsd is not something that can be cured. Mindfulness can assist in redirecting thoughts and gaining further control over paranoia. Therapy is confidential and there are different ways you can obtain treatment. Mental health professional have availability to provide therapy online, \u00a0on the phone or in person.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-without-my-parents-knowing-about-it", "topics": "Trauma,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my posttraumatic stress disorder without my parents knowing about it? I've had posttraumatic stress disorder for years without my parents ever finding out. I want to overcome it, but it\u2019s so vivid, it\u2019s like it\u2019s happening again. I'm scared and paranoid. I have depression, which I have been struggling with since a young age.\nTherapist: Post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a very complex issue. It is the root cause of many other issues including depression, anxiety and anger to name a few. Re-experiencing the event is a telltale symptom of PTSD. In the meantime there is a book called \"The Body Keeps the Score\", it is\u00a0informative and\u00a0may be helpful for you on your journey. It is my hope that you are not dealing with this alone.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-without-my-parents-knowing-about-it", "topics": "Trauma,Depression"}, {"text": "User: What do I do when I have anxiety attacks? I get so much anxiety, and I don\u2019t know why. I feel like I can\u2019t do anything by myself because I\u2019m scared of the outcomes.\nTherapist: The are two ways that such anxiety can be dealt with. But if you change the thinking from being scared to \"I'm bigger than the spider,\" it allows the mind to reach a calmer state of mind. Instead of avoiding distressing thoughts, open up to them in an effort to realize and acknowledge that they are not literally true. Although it may seem counter-intuitive, fully realizing the experience of anxiety enables the release of over identification with negative thoughts. By positively responding to threatening events instead of being reactive you can overcome an erroneous fight-or-flight response.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-do-i-do-when-i-have-anxiety-attacks", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I'm scared to tell my family that I'm bisexual. My parents seem okay with other sexualities, but normally they only talk about being gay. When they do talk about bisexuality, they say things like \u201cthey'll do anything\u201d or things that make me very uncomfortable because I am bisexual. I don't know if I am ready to come out to them.\nTherapist: Perhaps you are not ready to come out to your parents. Often times\u00a0our readiness is not dependent on what others' will say or how they\u00a0react. But more so dependent on\u00a0how emotionally prepared we are to deal with others' reactions. It\u00a0may be\u00a0beneficial for you\u00a0to play out each possible\u00a0scenario and\u00a0conclusion (eg. your parents being supportive vs. your parents being disappointed and so on). How are you prepared to deal with the outcome?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-scared-to-tell-my-family-that-i-m-bisexual", "topics": "Family Conflict,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid becoming wrapped up in family issues and control my anxiety about them? I started dating my fianc\u00e9 two years ago. My first cousin is married to my fianc\u00e9\u2019s sister. There has always been a communication issue between my uncle and aunt and my cousin and his wife. My uncle goes to my mom instead of talking to my cousin, and it upsets my mom.\nTherapist: Based on the information provided, this is an issue with boundaries. Sounds like your uncle goes to your mom and possibly your mother\u00a0takes the issues\u00a0to you. I do not like to assume so I will direct you to information regarding families dealing with enmeshment and triangulation. Enmeshment is the concept of diffused boundaries in families and other personal relationships. You may need assistance with developing healthy boundaries.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-becoming-wrapped-up-in-family-issues-and-control-my-anxiety-about-them", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle my binge eating? I have a problem with binge eating, especially during times of stress. I binge eat and feel so overwhelmed with shame and disappointment that I end up going to the gym and trying to exercise the calories off. I am in my late 20s, and I have been dealing with this since I was a teenager. Are there any coping mechanisms I can use to break this cycle?\nTherapist: The fact that you are aware of the issue and what causes it is a step in the right direction. You can absolutely break the cycle but it takes a lot of effort. Find healthy activities that you like to do that can help you deal with stress. Is it possible for you to incorporate food items that are healthy for you? You should seek professional help to assist you with getting to the root cause of your emotional connection to food. If you want something to grow you give it love and attention.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-my-binge-eating", "topics": "Stress,Eating Disorders"}, {"text": "User: I can't focus when I'm doing work, even when I try to force myself to do it. I feel so irritated and frustrated because of it. I get so angry to the point that I feel like I'm going to explode. I feel pathetic, stupid, and worthless. I just can't take this anymore.\nTherapist: Yeah I get the same problem... Look I'm not a professional but I've heard a few things. just a half hour of sleep can clear your mind and let you refocus. Also, brain activity increases with physical exertion. Just walk around for a minute and get your brain working and that'll help you reach the task at hand. Try to have something to do in between that you enjoy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-can-t-focus-when-i-m-doing-work-even-when-i-try-to-force-myself-to-do-it", "topics": "Self-esteem,Stress,Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: How do I find myself? I don't know what to say. I have never really known who I am.\nTherapist: I'm having the same issue... I think you need to consider your morals and what you really want out of life. If there's something you want to achieve, that's who you are. And you need to put yourself into that and immerse yourself in the purpose of whatever you want. If there's nothing you want badly then think about other things. What others want or what you need or what others need. Find something that feels important and commit to it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-myself", "topics": "Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: Does it mean that he isn't the one God planned for me if we had sex as Christians? I'm a Christian teenage girl, and I have lost my virginity. I planned to abstain from sex but I guess I wasn't clear about this because I was also tempted and led him on. Does it mean that he isn't the one God planned for me? I really do feel like he is in my life for an important reason. I'm incredibly happy for I was able to escape from several abusive relationships because of him.\nTherapist: I'm not a super religious person... But I can't imagine that if you love him that much and you want him that much, that he wouldn't be the one for you because of something small like that. If you feel that you want to be with this person for the rest of your life, want to marry them, then why should you have to wait until marriage? If you truly feel that this is the person you want to be with, then why would you need to wait until marriage if you're just showing commitment to each other?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/does-it-mean-that-he-isn-t-the-one-god-planned-for-me-if-we-had-sex-as-christians", "topics": "Spirituality,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Thoughts of afterlife causes anxiety. Sometimes I can't stop thinking about life after death. I was raised in a religion that teaches that we will live on forever either in hell or in heaven.  When I think of living forever (even if it is in heaven which should be good), I feel overwhelmed. I don't like the thought of living forever and ever and ever. Sometimes I just can't get the thought out of my mind and the thoughts lead to panic and anxiety.  Am I crazy? I don't think these thoughts are normal.\nTherapist: Your dad or someone who loves your mother as well is someone ideal. If you can't find anyone who you think will listen, talk to your mom. It can help greatly just to get the words out. Tell her how you feel about her passing, but then also about everything else. I don't know if you're a religious person, or where you believe she is now, but no matter what you can talk to her.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/thoughts-of-afterlife-causes-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle my binge eating? I have a problem with binge eating, especially during times of stress. I binge eat and feel so overwhelmed with shame and disappointment that I end up going to the gym and trying to exercise the calories off. I am in my late 20s, and I have been dealing with this since I was a teenager. Are there any coping mechanisms I can use to break this cycle?\nTherapist: I believe that for results that last, the best approach is to understand why someone feels like doing a certain behavior. \"Coping mechanisms\" are superficial instruction that people usually give up on when feeling extreme pressure from the problem behaviors. Take the slower road of understanding why you would deprive yourself of enjoying food. Also, if you consider the binging as a mistake of some kind, reflect on why doing something less than ideal, deserves harsh criticism and not tolerance and acceptance that people mess up occasionally. I'm glad you know that there are better ways of treating yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-my-binge-eating", "topics": "Stress,Eating Disorders"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my posttraumatic stress disorder without my parents knowing about it? I've had posttraumatic stress disorder for years without my parents ever finding out. I want to overcome it, but it\u2019s so vivid, it\u2019s like it\u2019s happening again. I'm scared and paranoid. I have depression, which I have been struggling with since a young age.\nTherapist: What is the reason you wouldn't want your parents to know you are trying to find your way through PTSD?Would they believe that you've been traumatized?And, do you feel that your parents had a hand in creating your trauma?There is no need to tell your parents you have PTSD unless you feel that doing so will help you. Maybe you intuitively realize that they don't want to understand or know about this. How did you come to the conclusion that you have PTSD?If you are working with a therapist, and a minor, then \u00a0the laws of your State dictate what information your parents can ask your therapist about you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-without-my-parents-knowing-about-it", "topics": "Trauma,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why do my boyfriend and I have such trouble communicating? We\u2019ve been together almost three years. We argue and he ends it by telling me he doesn\u2019t love me. It's hurtful because I am all about resolving the problem, and he dwells on the issue even if I drop what he's done and just swallow my pride and say I am sorry. How can this be resolved? We have kids, and I don't want a broken family because we can't communicate.\nTherapist: Try having a conversation with your boyfriend about your views and wishes for the relationship, when the two of you are having a calm time. A few questions I'd like to ask him is why he says he doesn't love you when the topic at hand is about a specific practical matter. I'd also like to know what he hopes will happen from dwelling on a matter. Instead, try to know your own wishes that you are either not stating or are being ignored by your boyfriend. What you each need to realize, is the terms under which this would most likely take place.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-my-boyfriend-and-i-have-such-trouble-communicating", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I am 18 years old with a baby on the way. Me and the father of my child have been dating for a year. We had a big argument and at first he wanted to work it out. But with time he started asking others and they told him to leave me. Now he wants me to wait on him to mature. He wants to talk to other people. Then come back in four years. He doesn't want to deal with me while I'm pregnant. He doesn't take me to the doctor or anything. I feel alone.  How do I handle this situation?\nTherapist: Well, as far as your boyfriend, sounds like he has received advice from others that is not wise advice. However this is not surprising to me based on his possible age and maturity level. Having a baby is a lifetime responsibility and there are very few who handle this or who realizes that it requires one to step their game up. As for you,\u00a0 how do you handle this situation is your question....you do what you have to do to prepare for your baby, with or without him. You have a LIFE to prepare for,\u00a0 to feed, to protect, and to love.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-18-years-old-with-a-baby-on-the-way", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I forgive myself? Something happened this summer that I cannot forgive myself for. When I think about what happened, I feel ashamed and guilty even though my loved ones forgave me.\nTherapist: Realize that you are human, not perfect and will make the wrong decisions at times. Unfortunately, we forgive others faster than we do ourselves because we hold ourselves to higher standards or expected better behavior from ourselves. What will be a trigger that will make me do that again, if I happened to be weak or tempted? Avoid or prepare for those triggers....\u00a0\u00a0Forgiving yourself will set you free from the prison you have put yourself in.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-forgive-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: What do I do when I have anxiety attacks? I get so much anxiety, and I don\u2019t know why. I feel like I can\u2019t do anything by myself because I\u2019m scared of the outcomes.\nTherapist: This is a very common question in my practice. To decrease your anxiety symptoms it\u2019s recommended to seek treatment with a therapist who specializes in working with anxiety disorders and most importantly one with whom you feel comfortable with. For example: listening to guided meditation; engaging in deep breathing exercises; yoga practice; or other positive calming activities.2. Understand your negative and positive thoughts. Increase positive self-talk when feeling down or when anxious. Exposure to fearful or anxious situations. However, the more we expose ourselves and practice the use of our positive coping skills (ex.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-do-i-do-when-i-have-anxiety-attacks", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Why do my boyfriend and I have such trouble communicating? We\u2019ve been together almost three years. We argue and he ends it by telling me he doesn\u2019t love me. It's hurtful because I am all about resolving the problem, and he dwells on the issue even if I drop what he's done and just swallow my pride and say I am sorry. How can this be resolved? We have kids, and I don't want a broken family because we can't communicate.\nTherapist: Communication involves a listener and a speaker. Both have to be willing to do their part to make communication work. This is something that takes both and not just one. Without both, communication is impossible. Staying together and the kids observing unhealthy communication is already broken.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-my-boyfriend-and-i-have-such-trouble-communicating", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend says he needs time to think about us. I found out my boyfriend takes anti-depression medicine. Lately he's been saying he has a lot on his mind, and he needs time to think about us. We've only been dating 3 weeks but I like him a lot.\nTherapist: Obviously something is going on with him that he needs time to process, think about, and work through. Respect that most men are not talkers but more thinkers. If and when he is ready to talk, he will. Don't take it personal because you just been dating 3 weeks and his depression maybe something that been going on for a while. If you do like him...showing him by being patient and supportive at this time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-says-he-needs-time-to-think-about-us", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why am I so anxious in social situations? Whenever I have to speak in public or be in big crowds, I freak out. I get light-headed, sweaty, and I have trouble breathing.\nTherapist: As you do it more, it should get better or at less with less anxiety. Anxiety is normal for most when speaking in public. I hear this from even the best of facilitators who have been doing it for years. I even experienced that when I first became a counselor and had to lead classes. I admit at that time I didn't have confidence in myself. The more I prepared and practiced, the more my confidence level increased.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-so-anxious-in-social-situations", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: What can I do if my coworkers accuse me of mood swings? My coworkers are making false statements about me to the boss, saying I have mood swings. They have no proof to back it up. Can my employer make me see a therapist of their choice?\nTherapist: If this is a concern of a few coworkers, make sure it is not something they see but you don't admit to. Employers can \"suggest\" or something \"stipulate\" in continued employment with them\u00a0 for you to go to their Employment Assistance Provider (EAP) if they have noticed the same behavior and concerned of how it is effecting productivity or employee relationships. No one wants to work in a environment which they consider hostile. Couple of things you can do...Ask a coworker in which you trust and respect if what others are saying is true?Seek professional help from your primary care provider or counselor if mood swings do exist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-if-my-coworkers-accuse-me-of-mood-swings", "topics": "Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I've been having the same dream since I was a child. I am a teenage girl. I've been seeing the same dream once in a while since I was very young. The problem is that I don't remember anything about this dream. I still know that it's the same one, and then I wake up in a panic, and I cry really loud without knowing the reason. Why do I see the same dream, why can I not remember it, and what should I do to remember it?\nTherapist: There is no scientifically established formula for understanding dreams, that I know about, however, many people get a great deal of value from exploring what their dreams mean. People seem to have more difficulty remembering dreams, the more time they let go by before attempting to record the dream, or if you go back to sleep before recording what you remember.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-ve-been-having-the-same-dream-since-i-was-a-child", "topics": "Sleep Improvement,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: nan. nan\nTherapist: Actually All my stress cause me to have a really bad seizure here at home now I can't drive anywhere for a full six months that is the state law here in VA.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/", "topics": NaN}, {"text": "User: nan. nan\nTherapist: Honestly I think maybe it it time to 32nd this relationship before things gets any worse between you two. Trust me I learn the hard way myself my ex hubby Robert Thomas Fitts actually had me arrested last year and ban kick out of the house. I still love him and care about him but I will never forgive him for what he did to me. He also file a false police report on me and put up a protective order up between is for at least 5 months. We also have a 5 year old daughter together.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/", "topics": NaN}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with the stress of my mother? My mom is always bossy and treats me like a child even though I'm in my 20s. She argues with me over stupid stuff.\nTherapist: You grow up gradually, and parents often forget to shift their habitual responses according to your newfound level of maturity and growing need for freedom and independance. Take a look at the picture from her perspective. and feel burdened by the mundane tasks in life that she doesn't know how to recruit help for. What items can we put in your control that would take some burden off of Mom? What will happen if you don't follow through?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-the-stress-of-my-mother", "topics": "Stress,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: What do I do when I have anxiety attacks? I get so much anxiety, and I don\u2019t know why. I feel like I can\u2019t do anything by myself because I\u2019m scared of the outcomes.\nTherapist: The other two post answers to your question are very good and I don't feel the need to repeat what has already been said quite well, but I will offer one other option I have been able to utilize quite successfully with those dealing with panic attacks. Chain analysis is a fantastic way for your to map out the situation starting with the prompting event, the chain of events ((links) that lead up to the behavior - in this case a panic attack, and then what the consequences were. Finally - it would also allow you to identify any particular vulnerabilities, such as not enough sleep, poor nutrition, trauma history or having a cold the time it occurred.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-do-i-do-when-i-have-anxiety-attacks", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Why am I so anxious in social situations? Whenever I have to speak in public or be in big crowds, I freak out. I get light-headed, sweaty, and I have trouble breathing.\nTherapist: Basically, your response is the fight, flight or freeze reaction which is hard wired into the human nervous system, specifically, the\u00a0autonomic nervous system (called the autonomic response). This system is responsible for regulating the heart, digestion, respiratory rate as well as other aspects which match the symptoms you describe. It is largely an unconscious function, but with training it can be managed such as a public speaking course in which you prepare and even have some exposure to smaller experiences to help you prepare and cope for larger presentations.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-so-anxious-in-social-situations", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Why do my boyfriend and I have such trouble communicating? We\u2019ve been together almost three years. We argue and he ends it by telling me he doesn\u2019t love me. It's hurtful because I am all about resolving the problem, and he dwells on the issue even if I drop what he's done and just swallow my pride and say I am sorry. How can this be resolved? We have kids, and I don't want a broken family because we can't communicate.\nTherapist: You can't fix this by yourself, but I applaud you for trying. I'm reading between your lines here and I wonder if your need to keep the family together is getting you to apologize when you've done nothing wrong and ignore things you've felt hurt by. I have worked with many couples and I've learned never to underestimate what kind of change is possible; anything is possible. Your boyfriend doesn't appear to have these components; he pushes you away and blames you when he's done something hurtful. Can you be honest with yourself about what's happening? I encourage you to sit down with a trusted friend or therapist and look at what you have here and what your options are.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-my-boyfriend-and-i-have-such-trouble-communicating", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid becoming wrapped up in family issues and control my anxiety about them? I started dating my fianc\u00e9 two years ago. My first cousin is married to my fianc\u00e9\u2019s sister. There has always been a communication issue between my uncle and aunt and my cousin and his wife. My uncle goes to my mom instead of talking to my cousin, and it upsets my mom.\nTherapist: When you're upset about something, the first question you can ask yourself is \"Whose problem is this?\" It is amazing how many problems will disappear right at that point, because you realize the problem isn't even yours. I tell myself \"Not my pig, not my farm, not my problem.\" When you stop trying to take care of other people's problems, they are more likely to step up and deal with it themselves. :)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-becoming-wrapped-up-in-family-issues-and-control-my-anxiety-about-them", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: A friend of my child's father is sending him inappropriate content. I believe it is wrong for men to look at inappropriate content. The father of my child has agreed to respect my beliefs. His co-worker sent him an inappropriate video. He got mad because he does not think he should tell his friend to not send him things like that.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are wanting to protect your child from degrading images and that is one of the important parts of the job of a parent. Although it is challenging to supply an answer without knowing the full situation, it might be helpful to have a more broad discussion about what you both think about the influences and images that your child is exposed to and what you think your role is in protecting your child. This situation is one about beliefs and values and could well be an example you can use for exploring your parenting roles in protecting your child.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/a-friend-of-my-child-s-father-is-sending-him-inappropriate-content", "topics": "Relationships,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I cheated on my partner, and I don't know how to feel. I am married, but I had sex with my friend. I feel guilty, but I feel not guilty too. Do I need to feel guilty? It's my body, and I have full rights to do what I like.\nTherapist: Yes, of course, it's your body and you can do what you feel like doing. Do you feel a commitment to your partner?Your guilt probably is pointing out the feeling of having done with your body what your spirit tells you is a violation of the commitment you feel toward your partner. The good news is that this is a moment for you to examine how strong your commitment is to your partner. Find balance between satisfying your freedom to do as you please, with your sense of being a partner, which means prioritizing the partner once in a while.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-cheated-on-my-partner-and-i-don-t-know-how-to-feel", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm depressed because I want to lose weight. nan\nTherapist: Our culture sets a very high standard on being within range of what is considered \"normal\" weight, that probably more people than you imagine, have faced a similar feeling of not living up to standards of how much to weigh. If you truly weigh more than is healthy, then figure out the reason for being depressed about losing weight. Were you criticized by your parents when young, for all sorts of things, especially appearance?Do you associate too much weight with self-criticism, sense of failure?Your question here is very brief so I'm only guessing the possible areas, based on typical ideas people often have about themselves and weight.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-depressed-because-i-want-to-lose-weight", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell my boyfriend I wanna be with him but not in a relationship? I've been with him for a couple months. We will talk everyday and he will get mad over something I will say and not talk to me. We have our great moments, but I just need to focus on my personal situations, and I feel he is slowing me down with that. I still wanna be with him, but not now.\nTherapist: Why don't you just tell him everything that you just wrote here?You're clear in your mind as to what you would like. Unless you have a whole either side to the way you feel, everything you wrote here explains your position very well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-my-boyfriend-i-wanna-be-with-him-but-not-in-a-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I cheated on my partner, and I don't know how to feel. I am married, but I had sex with my friend. I feel guilty, but I feel not guilty too. Do I need to feel guilty? It's my body, and I have full rights to do what I like.\nTherapist: My questions to you would be:\u00a0 Why did you get married? Would it bother you if your spouse did the same to you?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-cheated-on-my-partner-and-i-don-t-know-how-to-feel", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm depressed because I want to lose weight. nan\nTherapist: I can relate been there at one point in my life. Take small steps by making small changes to your eating and exercise each day. For example,\u00a0 drink one extra glass of water,\u00a0 take one flight of stairs,\u00a0 park farther away from store...\u00a0 Some changes help you take control of your depression by changing it to motivation.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-depressed-because-i-want-to-lose-weight", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: I am afraid of sex. I am a female, and I am afraid of having sex. I am afraid of disappointing my partner by being inexperienced. I think he thinks I'm not a virgin. I am also scared that he will be disappointed with my naked body. I don't want my partner to think differently of me because I am afraid of having sex.\nTherapist: The greatest sex experience will be with someone who you feel connected to outside the bed. This is something that you should feel comfortable in talking with your partner about. The relationship needs to be strong before moving to the bed anyways. If the love is there, he will understand your fears and make you feel comfortable making it a great experience.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-afraid-of-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: What should I do if I found out one of my parents are cheating? I saw my mother cheating on my dad before. I said something to her, and she said it was in the past. Yesterday, I saw her texting dirty things to the same guy. Should I talk to her again? I don't want my parents to go their separate ways, I just want her to stop. it's not fair.\nTherapist: You as the child in the middle of your parents' problems is the worse position to be in. I can only imagine your hurt, pain and confusion on what to do. Honestly, this is a hard question to answer without knowing your age, your parents' ability to handle hearing information from you and your maturity to handle what may happen in the end. One thing I would like to note....your parents may be in the same house but if your mother is cheating, they have already gone their separate ways.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-if-i-found-out-one-of-my-parents-are-cheating", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell my boyfriend I wanna be with him but not in a relationship? I've been with him for a couple months. We will talk everyday and he will get mad over something I will say and not talk to me. We have our great moments, but I just need to focus on my personal situations, and I feel he is slowing me down with that. I still wanna be with him, but not now.\nTherapist: I have learned that the best approach is to say that you need the time to get yourself together, mature, learn, outside of a intimate relationship but just in a friend to friend relationship...don't blame him or point fingers at him.... most likely if you did that it would not go well. If you make it about you and that you want the best for him while you work on self, it would be taken better.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-my-boyfriend-i-wanna-be-with-him-but-not-in-a-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What are some physical signs of psychosis? I just need to know if I'm really crazy or not.\nTherapist: Do an internet research on psychosis symptoms and see if you have several of the symptoms. If you do, seek a medical evaluation from your primary care physician. There are great medications and psychotherapy that can help you live your life to the fullest. There a many people who are diagnosed with psychosis and living a productive life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-are-some-physical-signs-of-psychosis", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my depression and grief? My dad passed away when I was a teenager. I never got any help, and five years later, I feel like I can't handle it anymore.\nTherapist: It's never to late to get help with grief. Get help as soon as possible before you are feeling the same way 5 years from now. You will always miss your Dad but getting help with coping with his loss will make life easier to live.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-depression-and-grief", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I control my temper? I get angry and act out. It scares my wife and child.\nTherapist: Yes you can..\u00a0 If you cannot control your temper, who can? You have more power of your emotions, thoughts and feeling than you are giving yourself credit for. If this is scaring your wife and child, you need to get control of it immediately. It will help to discover what is the root cause of your anger, what triggers it and how you can control/manage it. If you can't go to a class, try self help books or even better yet counseling and support of a professional counselor.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-my-temper", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: I\u2019m having problems moving on. We're not together, but I\u2019m still doing things for him and we are intimate. He\u2019s not there for his son.\nTherapist: You didn't ask a direct question because I feel from what you wrote you already know the answer. I have a feeling you are saying...I do love my son and hold him as a priority even if you don't do it for yourself...I would ask...Are your actions of allowing such disrespect from his father proof of that?I know what I have said may have gotten under your skin...I want it to.... because I feel that you have a conscience, want to do better, know you and your son deserve better and you can do better.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-having-problems-moving-on", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Can anxiety make me think I heard something about me? When I'm around people, I sometimes think someone has made a comment to me or asked me to do something. I will be focusing on something else and then randomly think I hear something about me. I never know if it was actually said.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are having difficulty knowing if people are saying things to you, or if you only thought someone was talking to you, and this is anxiety producing. It's understandable that it could be confusing and/or a bit scary to be unsure if people are speaking to you or not. It's hard to say exactly what is going on from just this description, but if you can work with a competent therapist, you may be able to get more insight into what is happening, get clarity about your social interactions, and develop some ways to deal with the anxiety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-anxiety-make-me-think-i-heard-something-about-me", "topics": "Anxiety,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Is my husband having a midlife crisis? My husband told me last year he never loved me and should have never married me. He's been talking about divorce, but he hasn't filed. Now he has a girlfriend and he abandoned me and his kids. He has no financial help, and he has been out of the home for four months. He became very angry and mean. He says it's all my fault, and that we're not compatible.\nTherapist: It's hard to say that it is a midlife crisis stage..\u00a0 could be... but so much more seems to be going on or have been going on to say with confidence that it is not much more.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-my-husband-having-a-midlife-crisis", "topics": "Marriage,Relationship Dissolution ,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle all of my stress? I work two jobs and go to school for criminal justice. Over the summer, my father had a stroke. It was very devastating. My father isn't the same, and my family fights every day. I have been kicked out the house many times. I break down a lot.\nTherapist: You undoubtedly are carrying a huge weight on your shoulders. Stress, if left unchecked has many negative health related implications. First and foremost I would recommend going to see a counselor at your college/university. When dealing with stress it is important that you engage in self care. Even with a normal life there is no way to escape stress, it is inevitable and a part of life, but how you deal with stress, as well as how you take care of yourself in the midst of these whirlwind events will determine your quality of life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-all-of-my-stress", "topics": "Stress,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I am afraid of sex. I am a female, and I am afraid of having sex. I am afraid of disappointing my partner by being inexperienced. I think he thinks I'm not a virgin. I am also scared that he will be disappointed with my naked body. I don't want my partner to think differently of me because I am afraid of having sex.\nTherapist: As hard as it may be to do this, since all the media and marketing of how an ideal person looks and performs sexually, surrounds us, keep in mind that the images presented in order to sell movies and almost any product, is meant to trigger fantasies. No one is a fantasy, we are all real and unique. We can be influenced to believe that being a fantasy is better than being who each of us is, genuinely. Having a conversation gives the chance to know that you are accepted for who you are, not how closely you resemble a made up idea meant to persuade people to buy items.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-afraid-of-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I'm depressed because I want to lose weight. nan\nTherapist: Depression is when you know what you need to do but are not doing it. Weight is traditionally an issue of protection and not feeling safe which in and of itself can add to the depression. If there is one suggestion I would make it is to start living now, go do what you would do if you had lost the weight. Little shifts can help you start to make different choices. When you do these little shifts they create big shifts. Of course adding Yoga, and Meditation is very helpful in weight loss. At our facility we have both of these as well as nutrition counseling using a wholistic approach.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-depressed-because-i-want-to-lose-weight", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: What do I do when I have anxiety attacks? I get so much anxiety, and I don\u2019t know why. I feel like I can\u2019t do anything by myself because I\u2019m scared of the outcomes.\nTherapist: Anxiety is simply your system communicating to you that you are in danger. The issue that I see in most of my clients is that they try to reason with this anxiety. You do not reason with sensory states in the body. If your system tells your in danger (your stomache feels like it is knots, your heart is beating out of your chest,) validate by just being present with it. Listen to your system, validate it like you do a child and see what happens.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-do-i-do-when-i-have-anxiety-attacks", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I find myself? I don't know what to say. I have never really known who I am.\nTherapist: Three years ago I attended a week long meditation retreat. I began to realize within my own being an experience of no separation. I could feel the connection with this awareness I had read about but never truly understood until that moment. Since this experience it has been my desire for everyone to become conscious within whatever experience they wish. At our studio we combine Mental Health with yoga and meditation as well as nutrition counseling to help people come to their optimal selves. In this there is nothing new under the sun, and it is very simple. I live in this state of being and demonstrate it in my daily life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-myself", "topics": "Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: I cheated on my partner, and I don't know how to feel. I am married, but I had sex with my friend. I feel guilty, but I feel not guilty too. Do I need to feel guilty? It's my body, and I have full rights to do what I like.\nTherapist: I don't think there's anything that you're supposed to feel. When something we do is hidden...a secret...it's easier to avoid feeling guilty. I wonder if you're avoiding your own emotions. But let's put that question aside for now. If not, this may be why you don't feel guilty. Do you want to be able to sleep with your friend? What might your partner feel if they knew?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-cheated-on-my-partner-and-i-don-t-know-how-to-feel", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell my boyfriend I wanna be with him but not in a relationship? I've been with him for a couple months. We will talk everyday and he will get mad over something I will say and not talk to me. We have our great moments, but I just need to focus on my personal situations, and I feel he is slowing me down with that. I still wanna be with him, but not now.\nTherapist: It sounds like you're pulling away instead of being honest. If you really want to be with him, why not now? If you don't have time for a relationship, why are you dating at all?I don't understand the whole \"phasing out\" thing that people do these days (or \"ghosting\", where you just stop talking and disappear!). It actually creates more hurt than gentle honesty.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-my-boyfriend-i-wanna-be-with-him-but-not-in-a-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I am afraid of sex. I am a female, and I am afraid of having sex. I am afraid of disappointing my partner by being inexperienced. I think he thinks I'm not a virgin. I am also scared that he will be disappointed with my naked body. I don't want my partner to think differently of me because I am afraid of having sex.\nTherapist: Almost everyone has the same fears you do, to some degree, especially if they lack experience. Men also feel far more of these fears than you realize. That can help...to remember that we're all a little scared and looking for safety and approval. Getting to know how you like to be touched and how different touches feel...getting acquainted with your body yourself first...this can help build sexual confidence. Being a generous lover who is confident enough to put fear aside...ironically this is what makes you \"good in bed\".", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-afraid-of-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I control my temper? I get angry and act out. It scares my wife and child.\nTherapist: Anger is a normal emotion, no different than joy, elation, or sadness. There are some whose anger takes on a volcano effect whereby they don't readily address problematic situations but rather they continue to stuff their emotion until the right trigger causes them them to explode, and then there are those who are very impulsive in terms of how they react to stressful situations, they don't take time to think out situations or to make sense of them, they just impulsively respond. I would encourage you to seek anger management from a therapist who utilizes a Cognitive Behavioral approach in order that you may explore how your irrational thinking related to certain situations may be influencing your problematic behavior.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-my-temper", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: Is it time to end my relationship with my boyfriend for good? He isn't violent, but he has anger issues and deep insecurities. He's working on them and has improved. We started counseling, and he participated in one or two individual sessions, but we broke up again shortly thereafter. Now his constant questions and accusations are getting really draining.\nTherapist: I worked for a number of years with people who have been both abused in their relationships and those who have been abusive. Being involved in a relationship with a partner\u00a0who does the behaviors\u00a0you describe can be incredibly difficult, and many would argue is even harder than\u00a0overcoming actual physical violence. I am going to assume you are still undecided. Surrounding yourself with people who remind you that you are a good person\u00a0is a great idea. One thing that can happen when emotional abuse\u00a0takes place in a relationship\u00a0is the person\u00a0being abused can begin to isolate and not do the things that make them enjoy life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-time-to-end-my-relationship-with-my-boyfriend-for-good", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I see if a therapist if my mom can't afford it? I think I have depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, and I have anger issues. I told my mom over and over again. She told me she would get me a therapist, but she never did. I just found out that my mom can't afford a therapist for me.\nTherapist: It can be difficult to get counseling if you don't feel supported by family members. If you are in school, I'd recommend talking to a school counselor or school nurse. They often will be able to help you access free\u00a0or affordable\u00a0counseling resources in your community. In addition, depending on where you live, it's also often possible to call 211 for referrals to free or low cost counseling services in your area.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-see-if-a-therapist-if-my-mom-can-t-afford-it", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: Can a therapist have a client admitted to an eating disorder treatment center if the client does not want to go? nan\nTherapist: Typically, a therapist cannot force a client to receive any treatment they do not want. In the end, it is the clients who get to decide what type of treatment they want. In such a case, the therapist would need to discuss the options with the client, and come up with a plan to best protect the client. A good therpist will be happy to have that conversation with you and allow you to make the final decisions about your own treatment.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-a-therapist-have-a-client-admitted-to-an-eating-disorder-treatment-center-if-the-client-does-not-want-to-go", "topics": "Eating Disorders,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: Is there a lawsuit for counselors and therapists who failed to report a relapse? I have a relative who is in his twenties.  He was in a drug rehabilitation program and got kicked out for using drugs again. No one informed family that he was using drugs again.  He subsequently overdosed and was found dead. Is their accountability of counselors, therapists or the halfway house for not reporting that he had relapsed? Is there a legal case for failing to report?\nTherapist: This sounds like a really difficult situation for the whole family. Since the answer to this question will depend a lot on the applicable state laws, I would suggest talking with a local attorney. That being said, I see two competing issues here. On the one side is the duty of confidentiality the counselors owed\u00a0to your relative. On the other side is the duty the counselors had to act reasonably to protect your relative from harm. A local attorney will be able to provide more specific guidance on the legal obligtions and liabilities in this situation.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-there-a-lawsuit-for-counselors-and-therapists-who-failed-to-report-a-relapse", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Legal & Regulatory,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: Is it okay if I take my friend's pills away? My friend is abusing her prescription medicine. Even though she told me she didn't have any more pills, I found she has prescriptions for anxiety medications.\nTherapist: I have a worked with many people who have become addicted to benzodiazepines, like Clonazepam. It is a difficult road for people who are trying to become clean. As for taking your friend's pills, my concern would be the legal ramifications that you could face should you ever be caught with someone else's prescription medication, and especially these types of medications. Our laws have become much more strict surrounding prescription drug sales and possession due to the increase in prescription drug abuse. In addition, people who are in active addiction are likely to find some other means to get their drug, so it would do little to help the overall problem.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-okay-if-i-take-my-friend-s-pills-away", "topics": "Social Relationships,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: I'm scared because my boyfriend is interested in BDSM. I'm concerned about my boyfriend. I suffer from anxiety, but I always have this feeling he wants to hurt me because he told me he was interested in BDSM intercourse. We haven't tried it, but I've had this feeling he always wants to.\nTherapist: There are few things that people find more personal than their sexual relationships. The only exception to that would be if you believe he is actually a threat to you in some way. If you believe that, then you should do whatever you think is safe. Assuming you are able to share with him your feelings, telling him what you are and are not interested in sexually is very appropriate and sexually healthy. It means they won\u2019t degrade you sexually with hurtful words, forced sex, or forcing or coercing sex in ways someone is not interested in having.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-scared-because-my-boyfriend-is-interested-in-bdsm", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Is it time to end my relationship with my boyfriend for good? He isn't violent, but he has anger issues and deep insecurities. He's working on them and has improved. We started counseling, and he participated in one or two individual sessions, but we broke up again shortly thereafter. Now his constant questions and accusations are getting really draining.\nTherapist: Sometimes relationships just do not work. Don't feel that the first, second, or even third relationship is the relationship you are suppose to be in for life. The one that is meant for you will require work but should be be draining and a constant roller coaster of breaking up. It takes times and it takes both working toward the same goal. I would suggest doing you...meaning focusing on your own growth at the time. If he wants to grow with you, he will make the necessary steps.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-time-to-end-my-relationship-with-my-boyfriend-for-good", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Should I message my crush? I have had a crush on this guy for years. I last talked to him a few years ago when we graduated from high school. We left off on a good note. Should I message him and see how he is doing, or is it too late?\nTherapist: It's never to late to let a person know how you feel. You don't want to hold this regret of not letting your feelings known and wondering \"what if\" for the rest of your life. Now prepare for whatever..if his feelings are the same or if they are not. If they are not, feel good that at least you let a person know they hold a special place in your life and wish him love, peace and happiness in his life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-message-my-crush", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I learn to let go of past problems and live one day at a time? I would like to be able to have more positive relationships in the present.\nTherapist: Each day do things that make you happy, moves to a positive place, focusing on the future, give you a sense of fulfillment and accomplishment. Journal at the end of the day of how well you did that day in focusing on these things. You will have days that you didn't do as well....that is human and OK. Just get back on track the next day....At the end of the week, review how well you did and give your self a grade. If not so good, OK....tell yourself next week \"got to focus one day at a time\".", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-learn-to-let-go-of-past-problems-and-live-one-day-at-a-time", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why am I with my husband if he is mean? I love him, but he doesn\u2019t show me love. He talks badly about me to his friends.\nTherapist: So many questions comes to mind when I read your words...Do you love yourself? What are you getting from this relationship that is good for you? What are you lacking in yourself that you allow yourself to be treated this way?....I can go on..If you can answer these questions, maybe you will answer your own question of WHY are you with your husband or even better, WHY you ALLOW your husband to be mean, show no love, disrespect you? You seem to lack self-worth...seek a professional to help you with this.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-with-my-husband-if-he-is-mean", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is it wrong to cheat on my husband? We don't have sex a lot. I cheat when we argue. I don't kiss or have unprotected sex with them. It's a one time thing, and I never see them twice.\nTherapist: The question about whether or not to cheat is based on personal values that can only be answered by you. Do you feel like you are violating your own values or morals? However, if monogamy is not something you value, then perhaps it is time to re-evaluate the relationship and determine if it is still right for you. Based on how you describe your relationship, it sounds like you are not very satisfied with the way it is. None of which requires any intimacy at all. Not having affairs won\u2019t actually fix the part of the relationship that is leading you to have them.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-wrong-to-cheat-on-my-husband", "topics": "Intimacy,Human Sexuality,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Why am I with my husband if he is mean? I love him, but he doesn\u2019t show me love. He talks badly about me to his friends.\nTherapist: Loving someone who doesn\u2019t respect or treat you well can be enormously difficult and painful. People stay for many reasons, such as fear, finances, children, pressure from others, and love. Many people have had to leave their abusive partners who they still love to preserve their own safety and regain the sense of self they may have lost. The person who really needs to take a hard look at themselves is the person doing the abusing. You have not said that your husband has been physically abusive to you, but if that has been the case, then you must consider your physical safety first. Leaving an abusive relationship is the most dangerous time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-with-my-husband-if-he-is-mean", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is it okay if I take my friend's pills away? My friend is abusing her prescription medicine. Even though she told me she didn't have any more pills, I found she has prescriptions for anxiety medications.\nTherapist: First of all, where did you find the pills? It's not honest to go searching through someone's things. You dislike the deceit in her, so why model it in yourself?If the pills were just left out, that's a different story. A good old \"I found these...what's going on with this?\" Google this....you will find a lot of good templates on how to frame this conversation.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-okay-if-i-take-my-friend-s-pills-away", "topics": "Social Relationships,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: How can I forgive myself? Something happened this summer that I cannot forgive myself for. When I think about what happened, I feel ashamed and guilty even though my loved ones forgave me.\nTherapist: You know what you did, and by the sounds of it you are not impressed with yourself. In my mind, this is a sign that you are a good person. You recognize that you did something that crossed your own moral code. You could have just done this thing and not felt anything - but you do feel. It's not supposed to feel good when you do something wrong. Don't deprive yourself of the opportunity to feel joy again.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-forgive-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Is it okay if I take my friend's pills away? My friend is abusing her prescription medicine. Even though she told me she didn't have any more pills, I found she has prescriptions for anxiety medications.\nTherapist: Your good intentions to help your friend stay clean, are very caring about her. Unless your friend feels like stopping pills, \u00a0taking them away will mean she finds them some place else. The problem that anyone who is addicted to pills has, is that the person is psychologically and at least with xanax, physically addicted. Taking pills has basically become a standard part of your friend's life. Her problem is bigger than your ability to care. If you haven't already done so, tell your friend directly about your opinion on the way she is using pills. This is not a guarantee that she'll stop. Offering love and advice are the only things you can do for her.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-okay-if-i-take-my-friend-s-pills-away", "topics": "Social Relationships,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like everyone hates me? I constantly feel like everyone is up against me and trying their best to shut me down. It's ruining my mood and even my whole self. I have trouble sleeping, and I keep having sleep paralysis while dreaming of others mocking and judging me.\nTherapist: The problem you describe sounds very wearing on your spirit. Are there particular reasons for why you feel everyone hates you?Have you been in a clash of ideas or opinions and feel yourself in the minority viewpoint?Or does your sense of being shut out start within your own mind, as though you anticipate that others will not like what you say?If actual conversations are leading you to feel left out, then evaluate whether to bring up certain points to the other person. Or, you may also decide that the relationships in which you feel shut out, are no longer worthwhile ones for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-everyone-hates-me", "topics": "Self-esteem,Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: I'm scared to tell my family that I'm bisexual. My parents seem okay with other sexualities, but normally they only talk about being gay. When they do talk about bisexuality, they say things like \u201cthey'll do anything\u201d or things that make me very uncomfortable because I am bisexual. I don't know if I am ready to come out to them.\nTherapist: Being bisexual can be particularly difficult because it is often misunderstood, even by people who are \u201csupposed\u201d to be part of your own community, such as lesbians and gays. If they don\u2019t respond the way you want them to, have you developed a support system to support you through it? It may be important for them to know the kind of damage that is being done to bisexual adults and young people because of the myths surrounding bisexuality. Sometimes people get pressured from friends, media, and even people they are romantically involved with to come out before they are ready. Intimate partners should respect you enough to understand this. This is something you may want to consider.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-scared-to-tell-my-family-that-i-m-bisexual", "topics": "Family Conflict,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I can never meet people's expectations? I feel like every time I do something someone asks me to, I never fully meet what they want. I feel that when I finish it, they always think that they should have picked someone else to do it. I feel like  they just want nothing to do with me.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have the perception that people are frequently disappointed in you, wish you were different or someone else, and ultimately reject you. Is there anything in people's words or behaviors that gives you this impression? If your not sure, it may be useful for you to try to notice what people say and do in response to you, even though you perceive these attitudes within them. Additionally, working with a competent therapist may be a great way to get an answer to your question as well as developing ways to move forward with that answer and gain a sense of self-esteem and security in your relationships.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-can-never-meet-people-s-expectations", "topics": "Social Relationships,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to blame myself for someone else's actions? I'm a teenage girl, and my dad is an alcoholic. I hate being at home with him because he just stresses me out. He can be picking me up from basketball practice or piano lessons, and half of the time, I don't even know if he's sober or not. I refuse to get into the vehicle with him and walk home sometimes. I've either been barely sleeping or I over sleep, so I'm always tired.\nTherapist: You are clearly a resourceful young person to reach out like this to find help. And depending on things like our relationship to that person, past experiences, and our self-esteem, we may actually start to believe it. It sounds like your father has an alcohol abuse problem, and living with someone who is struggling with addiction can be hard for anyone, let alone a teenager who is also trying to deal with things like school. You may be able to find something like that in your state. If you catch yourself thinking too hard about things, try to find something fun to do to distract yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-blame-myself-for-someone-else-s-actions", "topics": "Family Conflict,Stress,Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: How can I forgive myself? Something happened this summer that I cannot forgive myself for. When I think about what happened, I feel ashamed and guilty even though my loved ones forgave me.\nTherapist: Guilt is one of those things that nearly everyone has experienced at one time or another, and it can feel like a huge weight around your neck. One of the things that we know about guilt is that it doesn't usually do much to help us in the long-run. Someone may be drinking alcohol because they feel guilty about drinking alcohol. For whatever reason, this is just a common thing that we do. Accountability can actually be constructive. That you are prepared to take steps to make sure it doesn't happen again. Sometimes we experience it for a while and it goes away.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-forgive-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell my parents that I'm gay? I'm in love with my own gender, and my parents are against that. I don't know how to tell them because I'm afraid they'll not want me anymore.\nTherapist: This is one of those times when you wish you could assure someone that everything will go perfectly, but unfortunately\u00a0I can't do that. Some have told their parents directly, some drop hints, some have had others tell their parents, etc. Some people decide not to come out, and some wait for a very long time. Coming out is deeply personal, and there can be real consequences to someone's emotional health and safety if they tell the wrong person. That is why it should only be done when you are ready. Most parents are going to fall somewhere in the middle.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-my-parents-that-i-m-gay", "topics": "LGBTQ,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my posttraumatic stress disorder without my parents knowing about it? I've had posttraumatic stress disorder for years without my parents ever finding out. I want to overcome it, but it\u2019s so vivid, it\u2019s like it\u2019s happening again. I'm scared and paranoid. I have depression, which I have been struggling with since a young age.\nTherapist: I understand that at times it\u2019s difficult to share with our parents what we have been trough, due to fear of judgment or punishment; but I have noticed that keeping our experiences secret, intensifies them. A psychiatrist can also prescribe medication to manage the symptoms, but is very important that you address the trauma so you can heal and go back to live your life. La Terapia Cognitiva Conductual enfocada en el Trauma, es una t\u00e9cnica que te ayudara a manejar muchos de los s\u00edntomas, tambi\u00e9n puedes utilizar diarios o Terapia Narrativa o creativa, para expresar memorias y procesarlas luego en terapia.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-without-my-parents-knowing-about-it", "topics": "Trauma,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Should I message my crush? I have had a crush on this guy for years. I last talked to him a few years ago when we graduated from high school. We left off on a good note. Should I message him and see how he is doing, or is it too late?\nTherapist: You'll only find out whether or not it is \"too late\", by following through with wanting to message him. Regardless of whether the response you receive is what you'd hoped to hear, including not hearing back from him, you will have done yourself a great honor and respect by following through on a wish and curiosity you've had for some time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-message-my-crush", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: The girls at my coming-of-age party don't like their dresses. I'm having a quincea\u00f1era, and the girls don't like their dresses. They never told me, and now it's a week away. I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: How did you find out that the girls aren't happy with their dresses?Did you hear this directly from one of them or is this third hand information that someone else told you about one of the girls in your party?The answer matters because gossiping instead of directly telling you about a problem, is a problem in itself. One topic you may consider bringing up is what everyone expects to get out of the party. Are they coming because they like one another and wearing a dress in which the girl is happy, is only one way of having fun together?You may learn a great deal as to the difference in values about a quincea\u00f1a among you and your friends.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/the-girls-at-my-coming-of-age-party-don-t-like-their-dresses", "topics": "Social Relationships,Children & Adolescents"}, {"text": "User: Is it time to end my relationship with my boyfriend for good? He isn't violent, but he has anger issues and deep insecurities. He's working on them and has improved. We started counseling, and he participated in one or two individual sessions, but we broke up again shortly thereafter. Now his constant questions and accusations are getting really draining.\nTherapist: From what you write, you're not too happy with how your boyfriend treats you and how he handles his own life. What keeps you feeling connected to him in positive ways?If you're truly not happy most of the time in this relationship, then you're at the time of asking why you'd want to remain in a relationship which is draining.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-time-to-end-my-relationship-with-my-boyfriend-for-good", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I can never meet people's expectations? I feel like every time I do something someone asks me to, I never fully meet what they want. I feel that when I finish it, they always think that they should have picked someone else to do it. I feel like  they just want nothing to do with me.\nTherapist: As long as you try to reach others expectations you will never feel satisfied or accepted. How about setting your own expectations for self and strive for those. Make sure your expectations are reachable and realistic.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-can-never-meet-people-s-expectations", "topics": "Social Relationships,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Why do I want to be the opposite sex so much? I got sick really bad and was throwing up for three days and nights. I thought I was going to die. Then about a week later, I started having this desire to be female. I never had this desire before. All I can think about is being a woman. I don't get pleasure from my penis anymore either. Women are attractive, but not like before. I can also find men attractive now. I'm too ashamed to tell anyone.\nTherapist: Hello, and thank you for reaching out to ask for help. Surely this is a very confusing time for you! I have a feeling that a few things may be going on here. Our reaction to the thought can be very strong and our tendency to try to block it out, stuff it, avoid it, etc. You can try some of my suggestions, but you can also see a counselor who may be able to help you work through your confusion. What is important is that you find someone who is non-judgmental about what you are experiencing.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-want-to-be-the-opposite-sex-so-much", "topics": "Behavioral Change,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I lost my mom, and I feel like I'm depressed. Last year, I just always felt hopeless. I don't have a great relationship with my sister. I lost my mother recently, and that really added to my sadness. My sister always brings up how I was never close to my mother.\nTherapist: Wow what a painful journey you have been in for a long time. Death and grief bring up so many painful reminders of relationships--what they could have been, never were, and what was lost. With death of a family member the family often falls apart for a while... or longer. I hope you can find some support for you and your pain that was occurring before your mom's passing. I also hope you can find someone to help you set boundaries with your sister so you can have your time (as long as you need) to heal from losing your mom and then later figure out how to interact with your sister.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-lost-my-mom-and-i-feel-like-i-m-depressed", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal for my mom to get mad easily? It happens especially at me and my sister, and then she gets emotional and brings up the past. How should I deal with it? She is always stressed about her work and doesn't put her family first.\nTherapist: Anger is a normal emotion, and yet it is a really hard one... how much is too much? Maybe in a calmer time when you guys are being silly talk with her one on one? Tell her\u00a0 you are feeling sad and hurt that she gets upset at you girls. Ask her if she would work on 1 thing for you this month-- not yelling? Number one to remember, if you don't feel safe, if she is calling you names, or hurting you, breaking things etc. You are much too important to be hurt and if mom is out of control, someone else\u00a0needs to be --caring for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-for-my-mom-to-get-mad-easily", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: What can I do when I feel like I'm not using my potential? I am in my mid 30s. I feel I have used only 5% of my potential. I am in film making, but everything is stuck. I've never had a serious relationship. I had worthless jobs. I do a lot of meditation to try to fix it.\nTherapist: Being stuck in life is difficult, especially when you are feeling it in many different areas of your life. Make a 5 year plan... where do you want to be in 5 years... then start breaking it down ... what do I need to do this year to make it to next year. Seek out any free training/counseling on career changes and life changes. You already began this by asking this forum for help Awesome! Use the peace and calm you find in meditation to spring board you to make some changes in your behavior--try new things, change poor choices etc. Use the meditation to give you peace while you make the changes.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-when-i-feel-like-i-m-not-using-my-potential", "topics": "Self-esteem,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with OCD? nan\nTherapist: Obsessive Compulsive Disorder can be similar to anxiety disorders, assuming that you have already been diagnosed with OCD, it is important that you learn to identify the symptoms, the triggers and how to manage them. Different types of treatment have proven successful, among them Cognitive Behavioral therapy can help you to understand the source and thought patterns that cause the behavior,\u00a0 Exposure therapy could help you to manage the obsession by interacting with the objects that are the source of obsession. Se recomiendan diferentes tratamientos, entre ellos: Terapia Cognitiva Conductual te puede ayudar a comprender la causa que activa los patrones obsesivos y ayuda a corregir los patrones mentales y errores de pensamiento.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-ocd", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: I am paranoid that my boyfriend hiding something from me. My boyfriend and I have been dating for almost a year. We go to different schools, and we don't see each other that often. I just feel very paranoid that there's someone else or that he could be hiding something from me.\nTherapist: That is a strong word I think to use in this situation. Honestly the bottom like is either you don't trust him for some reason or you are insecure with yourself. Do some soul searching to help you figure which one it is. Work on either discussing why you don't trust him and work on building that trust ....or why you feel you are not good enough and work on that.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-paranoid-that-my-boyfriend-hiding-something-from-me", "topics": "Anxiety,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I rebuild the trust I destroyed from my porn addiction? i was addicted to porn since the second grade. I'm in my early 40s and overcame my addiction during my separation from my wife of 15 years.\nTherapist: The person who can answer this question is the person you want to rebuild that trust with. They are the only one who can tell you what it will take for them to trust you again. What they tell you may seem hard or impossible but unfortunately that is what THEY need. It is up to you if you feel and know you can provide what they request.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-rebuild-the-trust-i-destroyed-from-my-porn-addiction", "topics": "Social Relationships,Relationships,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: How can I get therapy for posttraumatic stress disorder without any money or insurance? nan\nTherapist: Check with your local non-profit agencies. I am sure there are programs which provides services for others in the same financial position as you. Many have sliding scale fees based on your income which can be $0.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-therapy-for-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-without-any-money-or-insurance", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Can I get over PTSD on my own? I have PTSD from childhood events and other traumas as an adult. I have panic attacks, nightmares, anger, and at times depression. I feel like I'm always on the edge or just apathetic.  Can I fix this by myself?\nTherapist: I will not say that you can't but I will say it will be much harder and the time may take much longer. Getting help and having someone to be there with you through the ups and down of PTSD makes the journey much easier.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-get-over-ptsd-on-my-own", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How does a counselor diagnose someone with a disorder? nan\nTherapist: A lot goes into diagnosing for a disorder. It is according to what the provider's assessment from information gathered, reported and observed from the client.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-a-counselor-diagnose-someone-with-a-disorder", "topics": "Diagnosis,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with my son's violent thoughts and dreams? My son claims that hes been having extremely violent thoughts and dreams. Not violent like he's hurting someone, but violent thoughts like horrible things happening to his loved ones. He explained one of his dreams the other day and it was so violent it was sickening. It was far beyond anything in a horror movie, he says he can't help these thoughts they just pop up. Please help!\nTherapist: If your son is reporting \"extremely violent thoughts and dreams\" please have an psychological evaluation done by a psychiatrist now before it gets even worse for him to bare. For him\u00a0 to tell you, he knows that something is not right.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-my-son-s-violent-thoughts-and-dreams", "topics": "Anger Management,Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: I am paranoid that my boyfriend hiding something from me. My boyfriend and I have been dating for almost a year. We go to different schools, and we don't see each other that often. I just feel very paranoid that there's someone else or that he could be hiding something from me.\nTherapist: Perhaps you can explain this feeling to him and let him know what might lead to feeling more secure. Also, it is important to trust your intuition! Perhaps there are good reasons to feel concerned. It may not be paranoia - it may be based in reality!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-paranoid-that-my-boyfriend-hiding-something-from-me", "topics": "Anxiety,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My wife outed me to her sister. What should I do when we see each other?\nTherapist: Sharing a part of your private life without your permission can be so painful. I might suggest (depending on your relationship) reaching out to your sister and discussing this (or setting boundary that you don't want to discuss your private life). I might also speak with your wife and share how hurt you are and what you need to happen moving forward to begin to heal.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-outed-me-to-her-sister", "topics": "Social Relationships,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How can I know what my sexual orientation is? I have been noticing myself really enjoying watching/reading about gay or lesbian couples. I've also been imagining what it might be like to date a girl, and I like the idea. I also find guys cute too. Does this make me bisexual?\nTherapist: Exploring your sexual orientation and attraction is a wonderful opportunity to get to know yourself! I would be curious to know what feelings you might have related to the possibility of being bi; What messages you may have received related to this orientation and any concerns you have about possible sexual orientations.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-know-what-my-sexual-orientation-is-3", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: i feel like i was born in the wrong body. I feel like I was born in the wrong body I feel like I should be a girl not a boy Ever since I was young, I have wanted to be a girl. My family is against transgender people and don't want anything to do with them. Recently, I have been taking things to help even though they were not prescribed. I know I should have this handled by a professional.\nTherapist: Do you have any opportunity to work with a therapist? It sounds like it might be really great to explore these feelings. If you aren't able to, there are many awesome gender work books available that you could use to explore your thoughts and feelings. Also - google \"ask a gender therapist\" - so many amazing video blogs to answer many questions!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-i-was-born-in-the-wrong-body", "topics": "Self-esteem,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I'm transgender. I want help and I need help. nan\nTherapist: Exploring these feelings would likely help you feel more comfort and have a safe place to talk.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-transgender-i-want-help-and-i-need-help", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal for my mom to get mad easily? It happens especially at me and my sister, and then she gets emotional and brings up the past. How should I deal with it? She is always stressed about her work and doesn't put her family first.\nTherapist: You have already figured out that other people's behaviours...how they treat you...it's not about you...it's about them. She can find another way to manage her \"stuff\". Unfortunately, you can't help your mom a whole lot or even help her recognize this. But for yourself... remembering that her behaviours are her issue is the biggest piece of \"dealing with it\". You seem stressed\", or even \"I don't like the way you talk to me\".", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-for-my-mom-to-get-mad-easily", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Is it okay for my girlfriend to have sex with other men since I can\u2019t sexually perform? I am currently suffering from erectile dysfunction and have tried Viagra, Cialis, etc.  Nothing seemed to work.  My girlfriend of 3 years is very sexually frustrated.  I told her that it is okay for her to have sex with other men.  Is that really okay?\nTherapist: Many couples are in open-type\u00a0or polyamorous relationships where one or both partners engage in sexual relationships with others. The key thing about this is that it really does have to be something that both people are okay with. Now, as Dr. Zehner indicated, what may be okay today may not feel okay tomorrow, so good communication is essential. The truth is, even in polyamorous relationships where partners are in agreement, jealousy does sometimes happen.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-okay-for-my-girlfriend-to-have-sex-with-other-men-since-i-can-t-sexually-perform", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I feel like I failed myself. My grandma had a stroke and passed away recently. I lost my home and job. I'm looking but haven't found a job. I've been binge watching television and binge eating.\nTherapist: Hello!I write to respond to your recent inquiry for possible increase in self-esteem and positive behavioral change regarding motivation for a new job. Perhaps your mind is constantly fighting this grief? I would try to reach out to a counselor to discuss this grief process at a deeper level to discern whether her death is part of why you feel this way. Also, I would recommend you set some short-term goals first for example, make a list of 5-10 potential new employers and send them each your resume. I hope that this information is helpful to you!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-i-failed-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I get my mother to listen to me without her freaking out? My mother and I have an okay relationship. I know she loves me unconditionally, and I love her the same. However, more times than not, I'm afraid to tell her anything personal because she either doesn't listen, she turns it around and makes everything about her, or she ignores things - even when they are about my mental health.\nTherapist: How can I get my mother to listen to me without her freaking out?Communication with our loved ones can be tricky, but it is the key to maintaining a healthy and functional relationship with them. First will be important to practice active listening skills, to ensure that you are receiving and understanding the message, without filtering it trough your own emotions or preconceptions of the person who speaks. Segundo, aprende y practica comunicaci\u00f3n asertiva. Si tienes dificultad aprendiendo estas t\u00e9cnicas, o el conflicto con tu mama es uno muy dif\u00edcil de resolver, puedes contactar un consejero o mediador familiar para que te asista.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-my-mother-to-listen-to-me-without-her-freaking-out", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I improve my relationship with my daughter? Me and my adult daughter just do not get along.  She's very belittling to me when I don't agree with her. It's almost like she scolds me. We get into all out war. She's said I don't support her in what she does and that I've never loved her. She calls me horrible names, and she pushes my buttons to the point I call her names.\nTherapist: As frustrating and probably hurtful as your daughter's comments sound, there's also a message in them about how she genuinely feels. To some degree, your daughter and you may both feel similarly misunderstood by the other. Watch for your own tendency to expect your daughter to consider you as a parenting authority, instead of considering her as a grown person. She may need to remind herself to talk to you as the adult she is. Her needs from you are real, they just need to be spoken to you in an adult way.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-improve-my-relationship-with-my-daughter", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Is there anything I can do about my depression and anxiety? I have been dealing with depression and anxiety for a number of years. I have been on medication, but lately my depression has felt worse. Can counseling help?\nTherapist: From whom do you get anti-depressants?This person should be talking with you to know whether the pills are helping or not. Trust your own instinct that the pills aren't helping you. Pills work differently for everyone and not all people feel better from them. It is also possible the particular pills have lost their effectiveness because after around six to eight months, this usually happens. Try to understand what is depressing you. This is slow work since you may have many theories.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-there-anything-i-can-do-about-my-depression-and-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Is it ethical for a social worker to ignore a client\u2019s phone calls? I terminated my counseling relationship with a social worker several years ago. I am now realizing that I would like to begin counseling again.  The social worker\u2019s voicemail message says that he returns calls in 24 hours, but he hasn't called me back. I called him on the weekend and made it clear that I want him to call me back.  Can he just ignore me?\nTherapist: Yes, your former social worker should return your phone call. It is the professional ethic to do so and plain human decency to do so. If he doesn't, there is nothing you can directly do about the fact of his ignoring you. There are formal complaints you can make, which you can consider doing. What matters most is receiving social work service. Stick with looking for another social worker who is willing to help you. The self-doubts you mention may be worth examining. They do not, however excuse the social worker mishandling himself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-ethical-for-a-social-worker-to-ignore-a-client-s-phone-calls", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory,Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: I need help controlling my anger. My long-term girlfriend broke up with me recently. She says it's because of my anger.\nTherapist: Anger is like a blanket that contains other emotion from bursting out and serves as a shield to protect us when we are not able to manage external issues. Once we understand that something else caused us to feel angry, then we can explore the source of anger. Cuando entendemos que algo mas causo el coraje entonces podemos explorar la fuente. Esto es un buen ejercicio para practicar con tu Consejero o profesional de la salud mental ya que otros conflictos sin resolver pueden surgir durante este proceso de exploraci\u00f3n.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-need-help-controlling-my-anger", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: I was duped into getting married to a therapist, but once her immigration status was secure, she bolted. How do I ever trust another woman? I have found myself constantly reading between the lines with every other woman that I meet. I am having a difficult time making any sort of connection to anyone because of her deception and willingness to say and do literally anything in order to control my emotions. Once the \"relationship\" was over, she became extremely abusive and has attempted to intimidate me into silence regarding the many false claims made on her immigration application.\nTherapist: If the woman was your therapist (or had been at one time), this could represent a significant ethical violation when she created a dual relationship with you. Even if you were not her client, this might still be an ethical violation. Counselors are held to a high standard of conduct and honesty at all times. In a situation like this you might consider filing a complaint with the state regulatory board.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-was-duped-into-getting-married-to-a-therapist-but-once-her-immigration-status-was-secure-she-bolted", "topics": "Marriage,Family Conflict,Professional Ethics,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: If parents are divorced, is it acceptable for a counselor to allow an ex-spouse to be present during a child\u2019s session? Can a counselor take sides with one parent and allow a parent to order the child to tell the counselor \"every detail\" about what happened during the other parent\u2019s visitation in order to help build a case for child custody?\nTherapist: I see a few issues here:First, the age of the child is important. This means that a counselor should not generally provide both counseling and offer an opinion regarding who should have custody of a child. If a court order, parenting plan, or separation agreement specifies that one of the parents has sole decision making authority, then only that parent can consent to counseling for the minor child and only that parent can be present during the child\u2019s sessions. In a situation like this I would strongly recommend seeking out legal advice specific to your state law.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/if-parents-are-divorced-is-it-acceptable-for-a-counselor-to-allow-an-ex-spouse-to-be-present-during-a-child-s-session", "topics": "Relationships,Professional Ethics,Parenting,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: Is it ethical for a social worker to ignore a client\u2019s phone calls? I terminated my counseling relationship with a social worker several years ago. I am now realizing that I would like to begin counseling again.  The social worker\u2019s voicemail message says that he returns calls in 24 hours, but he hasn't called me back. I called him on the weekend and made it clear that I want him to call me back.  Can he just ignore me?\nTherapist: Mental health providers should promptly return calls from current clients as well as from potential clients. This is even true if the social worker (or counselor) is unable to make an appointment with the caller. In addition, mental health providers have an obligation to follow through with their own communication standards. All that being said, it is also worth remembering that mental health professionals are just people too. In the end, I agree with Sherry's advice. If you feel this social worker is not a good fit for you, you probably should trust your gut and find someone else who is a better fit.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-ethical-for-a-social-worker-to-ignore-a-client-s-phone-calls", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory,Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: How can I care less about what people think? I always feel the need to impress people, whether it's my family, the people at school, or just random people. I know that no matter what I do or how I change, there will always be some people who hate me.  Why do I feel this way?\nTherapist: It is normal to seek other\u2019s attention and noticing that some people would not be interested. For example, I could choose to ignore a person\u2019s comment about me, or I could decide to focus on it all day, analyze why they said that and what have I done to them to get to that conclusion. Despu\u00e9s de todo pertenecemos a un ambiente social donde constantemente recibimos comentarios, que a veces nos validan, alagan y nos hacen sentir como parte importante y funcional de la sociedad; pero en otros momentos nos hacen sentir aislados, ignorados y diferentes, lo cual lo pudi\u00e9ramos interpretar como odio.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-care-less-about-what-people-think", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle getting the silent treatment from my boyfriend? When my boyfriend gets in a snit, he gives me the silent treatment for days. When I ask what is wrong, I get nothing: no reply, no phone call. If he does reply, it is something very sarcastic and hurtful. He never admits he is wrong and never apologizes.\nTherapist: You are in an abusive relationship-not because of your boyfriend's silences but because he is comfortable being sarcastic and hurtful, never admits he is wrong and never apologizes. It is your choice to participate in an abusive relationship. You can not stop an abusive partner from being abusive no matter how wonderfully you treat your partner. You can either accept the terrible relationship as it is or reach out for the support that you need to leave the abusive relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-getting-the-silent-treatment-from-my-boyfriend", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I have nightmares and flashbacks about a past relationship. I was the one who ended it, and I'm so glad I did. It was the best decision I made in my life. But how do I stop the nightmares and flashbacks? It is creating a wall in my current relationship.\nTherapist: Your challenge is called \"co-dependency.\" People seek approval from others in an obsessive way when they are failing to truly accept themselves. I encourage you to truly love yourself and know that you have every right to every sensation, emotion, thought, and inspiration that you may have.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-nightmares-and-flashbacks-about-a-past-relationship", "topics": "Trauma,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Am I gay if I like neither girls nor guys? I'm a guy. If I don't like girls, nor do I like guys, does that mean I'm gay?\nTherapist: Your sexual preference is based on who you ARE attracted to, not what does not turn you on. If you find you have no sex drive at all, this is called asexual. But you did not mention what you do find arrousing either.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-gay-if-i-like-neither-girls-nor-guys", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal for married men to fantasize about having oral sex with men? nan\nTherapist: If you feel this real for you, then it is. It is an incredible transition to undergo. There is more and awareness out there about trans now. Read different stories and find a support network so you do not feel alone. Mom will simply have to realize this with time. You can gently and lovingly confront her if she continues to refer to you as a female.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-for-married-men-to-fantasize-about-having-oral-sex-with-men", "topics": "LGBTQ,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How can I have a normal sex life with my significant other when I keep having triggers from past sexual abuse? I'm fine when we start becoming intimate, but out of nowhere, I will get a flashback of what happened to me in the past. I start hysterically crying and freaking out when my boyfriend obviously has done nothing to hurt me.\nTherapist: Have you sought the support of a therapist really qualified in working through sexual trauma? It can take some work, but healing is possible. If you feel able to, it may also help to open a dialogue with your boyfriend about what you need from him when you have these flashbacks. Let him know what some helpful responses may be.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-normal-sex-life-with-my-significant-other-when-i-keep-having-triggers-from-past-sexual-abuse", "topics": "Intimacy,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less insecure and needy with my girlfriend? I blame my past relationship for it. I know it is bad to be this way. I want to get past it.\nTherapist: We learn how to BE in relationship as children. The caregiving you received (or didn't receive) set the stage for how you show up in all your adult relationships. There are many ways to rewire these relational patterns, the first step of which is taking pause and noticing that you are feeling insecure - so congrats on that because clearly you are already there! Next I'd suggest finding a relationship therapist to help you sort through your insecurities, either as a couple or individually.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-insecure-and-needy-with-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I have nightmares and flashbacks about a past relationship. I was the one who ended it, and I'm so glad I did. It was the best decision I made in my life. But how do I stop the nightmares and flashbacks? It is creating a wall in my current relationship.\nTherapist: From what you describe about yourself, I agree with you that ending your former relationship was a very wise decision. Once you've stabilized yourself by accepting the tremendous harshness that was part of the former relationship, then the nightmares and flashbacks will disappear gradually usually, maybe all at once. There is a possibility too that your former relationship connected with being emotionally ignored, abandoned, treated harshly during your time of growing up years. Since generally people choose partners who relate similarly to the ways in which they felt treated by parents, it is possible that you had been badly treated while growing up and weren't aware of this until going through this terrible relationship. Congratulations on ending your relationship!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-nightmares-and-flashbacks-about-a-past-relationship", "topics": "Trauma,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less insecure and needy with my girlfriend? I blame my past relationship for it. I know it is bad to be this way. I want to get past it.\nTherapist: How did you come to the conclusion that you are acting needy?Is this what your partner told you or are you feeling this way about yourself?The difference is that what you'd like from a relationship may be very reasonable, only that your partner is not someone who wants to meet your needs. One way of evaluating whether you're actually needy is whether you feel that you give yourself love, take good care of yourself when you're in situations that are not connected to being part of a couple. If being by yourself feels uneasy most of the time, then probably practicing self-love, consciously treating yourself with consideration and thoughtfulness, may help you feel less needy of others.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-insecure-and-needy-with-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal for married men to fantasize about having oral sex with men? nan\nTherapist: I don't imagine there is any accurate way of collecting enough information from other people to give you an answer. Instead, I'd look to whether you're in a happy and healthy relationship, have friends, a relatively satisfying work situation, place to live, and overall are satisfying all the other areas of life. If you're in a solid and stable life, then enjoy your oral sex fantasies. They are just as normal as the rest of your life would seem!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-for-married-men-to-fantasize-about-having-oral-sex-with-men", "topics": "LGBTQ,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: Is there anything I can do about my depression and anxiety? I have been dealing with depression and anxiety for a number of years. I have been on medication, but lately my depression has felt worse. Can counseling help?\nTherapist: however, there is a caveat, namely, you will need the right counsellor with the right approach. This person will be viewing you as a human being with challenges, not as a diagnostic category. It goes without saying that you will subjectively evaluate the felt sense of connection with this person and the feeling that they are invested in their work with you, value you as a human being, and value the connection. anxiety is a signal that something is wrong.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-there-anything-i-can-do-about-my-depression-and-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I get therapy for posttraumatic stress disorder without any money or insurance? nan\nTherapist: You may have some options for low-cost or free counseling.1) There may be free counseling services available in you area. You could try an Internet search for \"free counseling\" + the name of your community. In addition, in many communities your can dial 211 for access to information about many free services.2) if you are a military veteran you maybe eligible for free counseling through the VA, the Vet Center, or the Soldiers Project.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-therapy-for-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-without-any-money-or-insurance", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Can I get over PTSD on my own? I have PTSD from childhood events and other traumas as an adult. I have panic attacks, nightmares, anger, and at times depression. I feel like I'm always on the edge or just apathetic.  Can I fix this by myself?\nTherapist: When it comes to trauma, especially in the event that it has caused you to develop PTSD, there can be a lot of difficulty in attempting to resolve these issues on your own simply because of how strong your urge to avoid it whenever thoughts of the traumatic experience come up. Panic attacks and depression, specifically, often respond well to self-help treatment manuals. The Centre for Clinical Interventions is a great online resource for workbooks to help you learn to manage the depression and panic attacks. Hope this is helpful and if you have any other questions don't hesitate to ask.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-get-over-ptsd-on-my-own", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: I have nightmares and flashbacks about a past relationship. I was the one who ended it, and I'm so glad I did. It was the best decision I made in my life. But how do I stop the nightmares and flashbacks? It is creating a wall in my current relationship.\nTherapist: A lot of times when you're experiencing nightmares and flashbacks, it can be a sign that you haven't fully processed what happened. Our brains tend to replay scenes in our life that we wish had turned out differently or \u00a0in an effort to desensitize us to it. Also, you may want to consider \u00a0what parts of your past relationship you blame yourself for. Typically however, flashbacks and nightmares are a sign that the trauma \u00a0of what you went through needs to be addressed.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-nightmares-and-flashbacks-about-a-past-relationship", "topics": "Trauma,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle getting the silent treatment from my boyfriend? When my boyfriend gets in a snit, he gives me the silent treatment for days. When I ask what is wrong, I get nothing: no reply, no phone call. If he does reply, it is something very sarcastic and hurtful. He never admits he is wrong and never apologizes.\nTherapist: This sounds very hurtful for you to be on the receiving end of this. and consider whether or not this is in fact either (1) \u00a0A message or value that you agree with and believe will strengthen your relationship and help you to grow as a person or (2) \u00a0A message or value that is damaging to the relationship or \u00a0to your view of your self and others. Once you've considered that and come to your own conclusion, you will likely know what you need to do.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-getting-the-silent-treatment-from-my-boyfriend", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I have a normal sex life with my significant other when I keep having triggers from past sexual abuse? I'm fine when we start becoming intimate, but out of nowhere, I will get a flashback of what happened to me in the past. I start hysterically crying and freaking out when my boyfriend obviously has done nothing to hurt me.\nTherapist: Sexual intimacy can be very triggering for survivors even when it is both wanted and consensual. You may want to consider seeing a therapist who specializes in trauma to work through the abuse if you have not already done so. Often times triggers still hold such a powerful effect when the emotions related to the abuse \u00a0have not been fully processed. In the meantime, you may want to consider coming up with a Safe Word to let your partner know that you are being triggered or to communicate your physical boundaries to him.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-normal-sex-life-with-my-significant-other-when-i-keep-having-triggers-from-past-sexual-abuse", "topics": "Intimacy,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Is there anything I can do about my depression and anxiety? I have been dealing with depression and anxiety for a number of years. I have been on medication, but lately my depression has felt worse. Can counseling help?\nTherapist: My initial response: \u00a0consider a more comprehensive MH assessment to determine other factors. A medical evaluation is warranted to rule out poor health issues.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-there-anything-i-can-do-about-my-depression-and-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: I have nightmares and flashbacks about a past relationship. I was the one who ended it, and I'm so glad I did. It was the best decision I made in my life. But how do I stop the nightmares and flashbacks? It is creating a wall in my current relationship.\nTherapist: Ending an abusive relationship is often very difficult, especially if you were very close initially without the presence of abuse. This is certainly not something you are purposefully doing but is the result of what happened to you. However, you likely feel as if you are not in control. The goal is protect your current relationship, evaluate your self-image for flaws in beliefs and feelings, and begin working on healing your memories of abuse.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-nightmares-and-flashbacks-about-a-past-relationship", "topics": "Trauma,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal for married men to fantasize about having oral sex with men? nan\nTherapist: It can absolutely be normal for men to fantasize about sexual activities with other men! Fantasy can be an incredibly fulfilling experience for you and your partner! This could be a aspect of your sexuality that you would benefit from exploring thorough conversation with trusted someone, like your spouse or close friend (or therapist). Depending on your current relationship, would you be comfortable discussing this with your spouse? Also, please understand that this likely has nothing to do with your gender identity as one therapist posted here. A fantasy related to sex may have to do with your sexual orientation but NOT gender identity.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-for-married-men-to-fantasize-about-having-oral-sex-with-men", "topics": "LGBTQ,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How can I get my mother to listen to me without her freaking out? My mother and I have an okay relationship. I know she loves me unconditionally, and I love her the same. However, more times than not, I'm afraid to tell her anything personal because she either doesn't listen, she turns it around and makes everything about her, or she ignores things - even when they are about my mental health.\nTherapist: What would happen if you said \"Mom, I love you and I really want to share myself with you, but often I you get upset and I don't want that to happen. I really want to be able to talk to you.\"", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-my-mother-to-listen-to-me-without-her-freaking-out", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Am I gay if I like neither girls nor guys? I'm a guy. If I don't like girls, nor do I like guys, does that mean I'm gay?\nTherapist: It doesn't sound like you are finding yourself attracted to anyone. It could mean that you just haven't connected with anyone you find attractive, or that you are asexual - essentially not oriented toward anyone. I would suggest doing some reading on asexuality and see if it connects to how you feel!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-gay-if-i-like-neither-girls-nor-guys", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I have nightmares and flashbacks about a past relationship. I was the one who ended it, and I'm so glad I did. It was the best decision I made in my life. But how do I stop the nightmares and flashbacks? It is creating a wall in my current relationship.\nTherapist: EMDR therapy has shown great results for work with PTSD symptoms which are similar to what you described. If you are unable to find a local EMDR specialist then I would suggest some meditation and journaling in addition to talk therapy to process your trauma. Your anxiety response centers int he brain are in hyper vigilance mode and retraining to turn down that response could be helpful for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-nightmares-and-flashbacks-about-a-past-relationship", "topics": "Trauma,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal for married men to fantasize about having oral sex with men? nan\nTherapist: In relationships, it is absolutely normal to have fantasies of a sexual nature\u00a0about other people, whether they are real or imaginary. This could certainly include fantasies about people of the same gender. We mostly talk about lesbian, straight, gay,\u00a0bisexual, or\u00a0queer folks, but there are actually many other interests than those. Not every married man has these fantasies, obviously, but some surely do. Where there may be a problem is if the person is actually struggling with their sexual orientation, and the fantasies are about more than just curiosity and arousal.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-for-married-men-to-fantasize-about-having-oral-sex-with-men", "topics": "LGBTQ,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How do I stop my nightmares? I have been having a lot of nightmares where I am being killed in different ways. I either wake up in a panic or just crying and sweating. It has made me terrified of falling asleep and is now affecting my daily life too.  Can I make the nightmares stop?\nTherapist: Sleep problems, including insomnia and even the nightmares that you are writing about, are really common for people and so many people suffer from them. Have you changed\u00a0or started taking any new medication lately? The dreams may not make much sense, but then again even good dreams don't always make much sense. Your stress and fear of what may happen when you sleep could start way before you actually go to bed. This could increase your chances of having another bad dream. If you have YouTube, you can pull up \"Guided Meditation for Sleep\" exercises to help you relax. Be well... Robin J. Landwehr, DBH, LPC, NCC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stop-my-nightmares", "topics": "Sleep Improvement,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I overcome the nightmare from the domestic violence of a past relationship? I am a survivor of domestic violence from a past relationship. Even after seven years, I still have horrible nightmares. I wake up in sweat, and the dreams feel so real.\nTherapist: First things first, I am so glad that you are alive and very sorry that you had to endure such a terrible experience. Bad nightmares could be the sign of something like Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), which would include other symptoms like being startled easily, re-experiencing the event, or avoiding places that remind you of it. There are other symptoms, as well, so if you believe this may be something you have you may want to seek counseling. You can also Google search \"Nightmare re-scripting\" or \"Nightmare Exposure\" and get some ideas on how you may be able to change your dreams.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-overcome-the-nightmare-from-the-domestic-violence-of-a-past-relationship", "topics": "Domestic Violence,Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: How do I overcome the nightmare from the domestic violence of a past relationship? I am a survivor of domestic violence from a past relationship. Even after seven years, I still have horrible nightmares. I wake up in sweat, and the dreams feel so real.\nTherapist: Nightmare are actually very common for survivors of domestic violence. If they are affecting you the the point where you feel like you need to do something, you may want to consider processing your memories of the events with a trained trauma therapist. Another good option, may be to attend a support group for survivors where you could process your memories in a safe space where others will be able to provide support and understanding for what you went through as well as encouragement for the strength it took you to get out of that relationship. You may also want to consider completing a screening or assessment to rule out post-traumatic stress disorder as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-overcome-the-nightmare-from-the-domestic-violence-of-a-past-relationship", "topics": "Domestic Violence,Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: How can I get therapy for posttraumatic stress disorder without any money or insurance? nan\nTherapist: Depending on where you are located, you may want to consider calling 2-1-1. It is a resource hotline that can help provide you with referrals for therapists or clinics in your area who may offer pro-bono services. When going through the list of referrals they provide you with, you can call around and see what types of treatment they offer for PTSD and make a list so you can do your own research before deciding what you think will be the best fit for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-therapy-for-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-without-any-money-or-insurance", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with my posttraumatic stress disorder? I feel angry, anxious, and depressed. The PTSD I suffer is from a past relationship.\nTherapist: If the symptoms are to the extent that they are affecting your ability to function, you may want to consider seeking treatment. PTSD, anxiety, and depression all typically respond well to treatment if provided by a trained clinician. Common types of treatment for PTSD that you may want to look into include Cognitive Processing Therapy or EMDR. The nice things about Cognitive Processing Therapy is that it is time limited and only lasts 17 sessions typically.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-my-posttraumatic-stress-disorder", "topics": "Trauma,Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My son plays alone at recess. Is this something I should be worried about?  Should I do something about it?\nTherapist: It can be tricky to figure out if a child is truly satisfied with his lack of friendships. Therespectfully is a difference between kids who are shy but happy and kids who feel isolated because they do not know how to make friends. Itis not necessarily that there is something wrong with that child, but they will in fact need help and suggestions for breaking into a peer group\u00a0Ask a child if there is someone he would like to have over to play. I encourage well-meaning parents to choose words carefully. True personality disorders are not typically diagnosed until adulthood. Still, professional counseling should be considered if the anti-social behavior is causing the child significant distress, perhaps keeping him from functioning in everyday activities.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-son-plays-alone-at-recess", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: What is the best way to cope with the loss of someone to suicide? I recently lost a friend to suicide.  I'm smoking marijuana and drinking more to cope with it. How can I handle this better?\nTherapist: First of all, I am very sorry for your loss, and I can understand the urge to drink and smoke to try and cope. Grieving is a process that is unique to each individual and each relationship that may involve difficult, confusing, and even contradictory seeming thoughts and feelings and a competent therapist can help you work through this process. Self care is often most difficult when we need it the most.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-best-way-to-cope-with-the-loss-of-someone-to-suicide", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Substance Abuse,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with \"never being good enough?\". I'm always told I'm not good enough or trying hard enough. I put 100% in to every thing. I'm worn out, I've worked on all of my family relationships, I'm doing great in school, I'm kind to those in need and otherwise. I stick to my religious beliefs and leave room for mistakes and learn from others so I don't have to make as many and the ones I do I learn from.  Somehow it's still not good enough and nothing I do works. Nothing has changed, and I feel hopeless. Any suggestions or ideas?\nTherapist: It sounds like you are aware of your positive traits but you\u00a0are struggling with someone who does not acknowledge nor celebrate your efforts or achievements. Also, explore your religious beliefs, and what is they say about who you are as a person. Finally, explore with a Counselor your inner voice and try to figure out if the negative message is settling in and harming your self-esteem. Si es una relaci\u00f3n valiosa, puedes comunicarle a la persona en cuesti\u00f3n como te afecta la falta de comentarios y opiniones positivas.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-never-being-good-enough", "topics": "Family Conflict,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: What is the best way to cope with the loss of someone to suicide? I recently lost a friend to suicide.  I'm smoking marijuana and drinking more to cope with it. How can I handle this better?\nTherapist: I'm so sorry to hear about your recent loss. The more we talk about our feelings, the more we are okay with them being ours. In talking with your supports, you may also decide ways in which you may want to remember your friend; ways you can do so on a personal level (writing a poem, planting a tree, etc.) We never truly \"get over\" our losses, but we can learnt o accept the losses and what it means to us now...but that also takes time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-best-way-to-cope-with-the-loss-of-someone-to-suicide", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Substance Abuse,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: What is the best way to cope with the loss of someone to suicide? I recently lost a friend to suicide.  I'm smoking marijuana and drinking more to cope with it. How can I handle this better?\nTherapist: Let me begin by offering my condolences for your loss. This includes denial, anger, bargaining, depression and finally acceptance. Its imperative to note \u00a0that one may\u00a0express each stage with different levels of intensity. We often move between stages before achieving a more peaceful acceptance of death. Just note that everyone greives differently, some internalize their feelings and emotions, others express it externally, while other avoid it all together. What's important, is that you allow others to comfort you through the various stages. Avoiding or resisting may only delay the healing process.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-best-way-to-cope-with-the-loss-of-someone-to-suicide", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Substance Abuse,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Do I have bipolar disorder? It's been like a couple of years that I've been feeling like this. I don't want to self-diagnose, but I get so sad and cry and then I feel better. But then I get upset with people so quickly, and I hurt their feelings. It's this constant rollercoaster, and it's hard.\nTherapist: Bipolar disorder is\u00a0generally\u00a0characterized by extreme changes in mood, ranging from mania (highs) to depression (lows). Bipolar disorder is treatable, but for many people it requires the right medication and sometimes counseling to help people make behavior changes that are important for bipolar management. For example, some people may not get regular sleep, but proper rest is important for bipolar management. A counselor may talk to you about this and other lifestyle changes that you may need to make.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-bipolar-disorder-2", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: What is the best way to cope with the loss of someone to suicide? I recently lost a friend to suicide.  I'm smoking marijuana and drinking more to cope with it. How can I handle this better?\nTherapist: Suicide is a very traumatic loss and affects survivors significantly. Everyone deals with their grief in different ways. One way I recommend to deal with the loss of a loved one is to write letters to them. Some people like to keep the letters in a jar, maybe fill the jar with sand so the letters are buried. I recommend writing the letters as often as you need to. You will notice over time the need to write the letters will decrease and the intense feelings of loss will decrease. I also recommend finding a survivors support group in your area. You can find more information on www.afsp.org.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-best-way-to-cope-with-the-loss-of-someone-to-suicide", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Substance Abuse,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: My son plays alone at recess. Is this something I should be worried about?  Should I do something about it?\nTherapist: I recommend asking your son about the reasons he chooses to play alone at recess. If he is happy on his own and you know he has some friends, I would not be very concerned. However, there may be bullying going on at school. In the case of bullying, it may be a situation where you as his parent will need to step in.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-son-plays-alone-at-recess", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with gender dysphoria in a positive way? I'm transgender, I know I am, but I've only told a few friends. I know I can't tell my family because of previous conversations we've had. They just wouldn't accept it. My gender dysphoria is getting really difficult to deal with on my own. I need some strategies for dealing with it. What should I do?\nTherapist: I am so glad that you reached out for help. I know that the dysphoria can feel nearly impossible to handle, especially since you have limited support from people who accept who you are. The website www.letsqueerthingsup.com is a blog from a very good writer that I know. He writes about mental health, transgender issues, and many other topics. Sometimes LGBTQ-friendly counselors leave their contact information for people in resource centers. Visit their site at www.translifeline.org.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-gender-dysphoria-in-a-positive-way", "topics": "Human Sexuality,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with gender dysphoria in a positive way? I'm transgender, I know I am, but I've only told a few friends. I know I can't tell my family because of previous conversations we've had. They just wouldn't accept it. My gender dysphoria is getting really difficult to deal with on my own. I need some strategies for dealing with it. What should I do?\nTherapist: It can be difficult to handle such a transition on your own. I work with clients to understand their needs and wants. This can involve how to communicate effectively with friends, family, and other loved ones; or, learning how to have self-acceptance. I strongly recommend speaking with a licensed clinician one on one to help facilitate the change you are looking for.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-gender-dysphoria-in-a-positive-way", "topics": "Human Sexuality,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Why is it so hard for me to talk publicly? I feel really uncomfortable when I have people's attention.  It makes me not want to talk in public or answer questions in class. Can I get over this social anxiety?\nTherapist: you can learn lots of skills/techniques to feel more confident in what you need to do that will decrease your anxious response for sure! :) And\u00a0 you can also learn how to work with your personality that may not like the attention. There is a place in this world for you either way! Public speaking skills can be practiced in speech class, or toastmaster group, they will give you practice in a safe environment where the cool kids or cutest boy aren't ready to laugh at you. Social anxiety is a difficult concern and picking apart what is your awesome personality and what needs skill building and mindfulness/anxiety\u00a0 help are important steps.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-is-it-so-hard-for-me-to-talk-publicly", "topics": "Anxiety,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My wife won't do things she used to do. There are intimate things she did early in the relationship, and things she had once agreed to try that she will not do now. I end up thinking about it all day. I feel rejected and think I married the wrong person.\nTherapist: My wife won't do things she used to doThere are intimate things she did early in the relationship, and things she had once agreed to try that she will not do now. Many times when we have problems we reflect it in multiple areas, including our intimacy or lack of it. Then you can focus on having conversations about your intimacy. Si continuas teniendo dificultad o no sabes c\u00f3mo comunicarte con tu pareja, considera terapia de pareja como una alternativa, o incluso consejer\u00eda individual para trabajar en tus destrezas de comunicaci\u00f3n.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-won-t-do-things-she-used-to-do", "topics": "Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: What is the best way to cope with the loss of someone to suicide? I recently lost a friend to suicide.  I'm smoking marijuana and drinking more to cope with it. How can I handle this better?\nTherapist: Suicide is not a natural way to pass from this Earth, so many times it can be EXTREMELY tough to deal with because of the \"unnatural-ness\" of the event. We may find ourselves feeling guilty that we did not see it or that we could've have done more or something to stop it, but often the fish in the fishbowl cannot see that which is closest to him. You are currently trying to numb your feelings, those feelings as nasty as they are, are meant to be felt, those feelings help us to process the event and also help us to pass through the situation.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-best-way-to-cope-with-the-loss-of-someone-to-suicide", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Substance Abuse,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I control my anxiety? I started having anxiety three months ago. I'm new to having anxiety, and it's making me depressed.\nTherapist: As a past sufferer of anxiety myself, I have learned that it is a natural part of life, it is a natural part of us, the longer we try to run from it the more it entangles us in its clutches, if we deny certain parts of ourselves we will become depressed or even oppressed, the only way to deal with anxiety is to embrace it and accept it, and in fighting the fight without fighting we will eventually win, I would encourage you to look into Acceptance and Commitment Therapy, your answer I think lies in that area of research.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-my-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My wife won't do things she used to do. There are intimate things she did early in the relationship, and things she had once agreed to try that she will not do now. I end up thinking about it all day. I feel rejected and think I married the wrong person.\nTherapist: I'd say you're letting fear get a hold on you! What is the evidence that your wife wants to please you?...that she is the \"right\" woman for you?...that she loves you?...that she cares about what's important to you? We all have moments when we really just want to sit and stew in our self pity over our partner not vacuuming or cooking or saying loving things often enough...but they can't read our minds! Can you lovingly let her know what you miss? ... Sharing who we are, so that we can love each other better. You can't control her answer, but can you trust her to care?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-won-t-do-things-she-used-to-do", "topics": "Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I hate the way I look. I hate everything I see in the mirror. I don't like being in pictures and always scribble out my face.  It's stressing me out. I don't trust my parents enough to tell them and I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: This is so very common in this crazy looks-obsessed world! Sometimes stories are told about us when we're young and the best thing we can do is see the author's evil or careless intent and not take that on. If you were your own best friend, what would you say about your face? Accepting yourself and knowing it won't change is a good idea, because wishing it were different won't make it so!Looking good is also about minimizing flaws and building on your assets. Are you in a rut about hairstyle or makeup? Ask a good friend to give you a make-over.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-hate-the-way-i-look", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: I feel guilty about my fathers death. I spent my whole life taking care of my dad, but left because of his verbally abusive behavior. I was the only one that helped with his health issues. I feel if I hadn't left he might still be alive. I need help dealing with my grief and guilty conscience.\nTherapist: I see such a sharp contrast between your question and your first sentence. I have a hunch that your dad blamed you for a lot of things. Abusive people do that a lot; they make you believe things are your fault when they're not. You didn't contribute to your dad's death; your selfless care gave him a longer life...better health. Can you tell yourself \"It's okay that I had to take care of myself too.\"... \" And... my hope is that you can also find different ways to help yourself feel \"good enough\" in this world, and a balance between caring for others and caring for yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-guilty-about-my-fathers-death", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: What is the best way to cope with the loss of someone to suicide? I recently lost a friend to suicide.  I'm smoking marijuana and drinking more to cope with it. How can I handle this better?\nTherapist: I urge you to seek some therapeutic help for this, and also to connect with others who knew your friend, because they're likely feeling the same way. Suicide is difficult to understand, and those left behind have many mixed emotions that make their grief complicated and anguished. There are other things you can do to cope with this, and it has to do with accepting your powerlessness to stop it, not blaming yourself, forgiving your friend, and finding meaning in their life and yours. You won't find that meaning in a bottle or a joint.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-best-way-to-cope-with-the-loss-of-someone-to-suicide", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Substance Abuse,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I care less about what people think? I always feel the need to impress people, whether it's my family, the people at school, or just random people. I know that no matter what I do or how I change, there will always be some people who hate me.  Why do I feel this way?\nTherapist: My first reaction to this is that It sounds like you rely alot on the impressions and projections of the outside world, that you need validation from other people to compensate for a lack of something on the inside, build yourself up on the inside, work on yourself, use positive affirmations daily, it would be wise for you to research some self-construct theory and do some self-concept work.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-care-less-about-what-people-think", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: My son plays alone at recess. Is this something I should be worried about?  Should I do something about it?\nTherapist: Is this something I should be worried about? Children also follow their parent\u2019s model, so you can encourage social interaction by greeting other and asking your son to do the same, ask him to receive the guests who come to the house with you and sit to enjoy the conversation. Los ni\u00f1os van por etapas de exploraci\u00f3n y prueba hasta que desarrollan un nivel de confianza en sus destrezas sociales. Si observas que tu hijo est\u00e1 nervioso, lloroso, o agresivo cuando se acerca alguna actividad social, consulta con el consejero escolar o un consejero infantil para evaluar sus s\u00edntomas y descarta cualquier problema de conducta o ansiedad.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-son-plays-alone-at-recess", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How can I control my anxiety? I started having anxiety three months ago. I'm new to having anxiety, and it's making me depressed.\nTherapist: Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) does seem to help a lot of people who struggle with anxiety. It's not the only type of therapy that can help, but it seems to help people in a way that is more natural and realistic. Our natural inclination when we have anxiety is to STOP any and all things that may cause it or provoke it. Anxiety usually has us rehashing the past or rehearsing the future\u00a0while ignoring the present. ACT helps folks who have those kinds of tendencies. Be well..Robin J. Landwehr, DBH, LPC, NCC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-my-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My son plays alone at recess. Is this something I should be worried about?  Should I do something about it?\nTherapist: The answer depends on how the other areas of your son's life are doing. Is he happy or does he seem happy, playing alone during recess?Does he have friends in other social circles besides the students whom he's with at recess?How is his academic progress?How is his social integration among his classmates?Are there any special or unusual circumstances in the home and family environment?Go through this list to form a fuller idea of whether your son simply likes alone time and takes this option during recess, or if any if the above areas show stress or difficulty for him and which need to be further understood and handled.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-son-plays-alone-at-recess", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: My son plays alone at recess. Is this something I should be worried about?  Should I do something about it?\nTherapist: Humans are social creatures so this can be an alarming thing for a parent to deal with, just like adults children are not the same and some children are more social than others, if he plays alone at recess (all the time) it would worry myself as well, however recess is only one domain of life, does he have friends outside of school or daycare? Does he socialize in other situations or is it just at recess where this occurs? If this is a global problem occurring at other social times it may be indicative of something deeper going on, if perhaps it is occurring \"just during recess\" it could be something else altogether.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-son-plays-alone-at-recess", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Why is it so hard for me to talk publicly? I feel really uncomfortable when I have people's attention.  It makes me not want to talk in public or answer questions in class. Can I get over this social anxiety?\nTherapist: Since anxiety usually about anticipating a bad result, or fear of being judged negatively, as though having failed some sort of test, consider what would give you the feeling of anticipating a good result from talking to an audience?Maybe, for example, if you prepared and rehearsed your talk more than what you typically would, you'd feel more secure in speaking \u00a0in front of an audience. You may naturally prefer smaller groups than an audience. And, it is possible to decrease anxiety in what may always be somewhat uncomfortable for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-is-it-so-hard-for-me-to-talk-publicly", "topics": "Anxiety,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I get therapy for posttraumatic stress disorder without any money or insurance? nan\nTherapist: Depending on the source of your traumatic experience, there may be ways to get free treatment to help you. For example, if your experience was related to your military service, the VA may be able to assist you. If your experience is related to 9/11 and you meet certain criteria, there are ways to get free help. In many states, if you are the victim of a crime, there is a victim's assistance fund that may cover costs of this treatment. Basically, start with the traumatic event(s) you have experienced and move forward from there.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-therapy-for-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-without-any-money-or-insurance", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Why have I been feeling empty lately? I have a lot on my mind, but all I want to do is stay locked in my room and not socialize with anyone. Why do I feel so alone?\nTherapist: There is a difference in someone agreeing to try something and agreeing to continue to do it. So this does not mean that things have changed between you. It does mean that the two of you may need to spend some time to find out what you both like. Some couples have even found it helpful to each write down ten things they would like the other person to try and then each person can pick three things from the other person's list to add into their life together when they chose to over the next few weeks.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-have-i-been-feeling-empty-lately", "topics": "Social Relationships,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why have I been feeling empty lately? I have a lot on my mind, but all I want to do is stay locked in my room and not socialize with anyone. Why do I feel so alone?\nTherapist: There are many possible issues to consider as depression \u00a0social anxieties, even medical illness. For some, even grief creates a sense of isolation, pains from relationship break up. Also, obsessive thinking can be debilitating. Seeking at least one trusted friend or family member can be a start towards increased personal support. Some persons may simply feel connected by spending time with someone as this, even if not talking directly on issues, just being around another is positive. Obviously there is more to explore on this question, given minimal information from two sentences.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-have-i-been-feeling-empty-lately", "topics": "Social Relationships,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why have I been feeling empty lately? I have a lot on my mind, but all I want to do is stay locked in my room and not socialize with anyone. Why do I feel so alone?\nTherapist: It has been said that depression is often the result of a blocked goal. For some, depression is the result of frequently blocked goals and when their predominant issues are evaluated, they discover that they are anxious (worried) about a lot of areas in their life but seem to find no relief. Has there been ongoing rejection from peers? If so, why does this seem to be happening? Isolation is often a protective measure that one implements to avoid further pain. It has more to do with how we view ourselves.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-have-i-been-feeling-empty-lately", "topics": "Social Relationships,Depression"}, {"text": "User: I am 20 and miserable. I have no friends, no hobbies, and no interest in anything. I get annoyed with everything and everyone. I am always tired, i can sleep 8 hrs or 12 hrs and im still tired.  I don't know what to do. Is this normal?\nTherapist: It certainly sounds like you don't like how things are going. There are health conditions that can affect your mood and energy levels, even at your age. If they find the cause, they may be able to treat it and improve the symptoms. A counselor will help you explore the factors that may be leading to depressive symptoms in the first place. These symptoms could be the sign of an underlying general health or mental health condition. Millions of people struggle with depression.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-20-and-miserable", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Am I gay if I like neither girls nor guys? I'm a guy. If I don't like girls, nor do I like guys, does that mean I'm gay?\nTherapist: I agree with my colleagues about researching asexuality, but I want too add a couple of things about that:Here is a website that you can start with to get some information about asexuality - http://www.asexuality.org/home/There are a whole lot of myths surrounding asexuality. One is that people who are asexual have absolutely no interest in sex, and that is not always the case. There is a good chance that there is a community of people who feel like you do. Finally, labels are important for a lot of things, but labeling ourselves can sometimes lead to some painful feelings.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-gay-if-i-like-neither-girls-nor-guys", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: My friends don't put effort into our relationship. It's really hard to not have negative feelings about friends who don't put any effort into nourishing our relationship.\nTherapist: One thing I would ask is \"why are you still hanging with those {friends}?\" A relationship needs to be nurtured by both parties, it is a dynamic fluctuation between two people. I would ask you to question why you continue to remain together as friends, I always believed that a relationship should emit positivity towards all parties involved, if your in a relationship that is one-sided, it is inevitable that it will start to de-compensate.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-friends-don-t-put-effort-into-our-relationship", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I was in a relationship for almost five years. We were friends for a few years before we got into a relationship. He was a caring, friendly, and charming guy up until three and a half years in. He started controlling me: who I hung out with, where I was at all times, and he had a huge hissy fit if I tried to ask him the same questions. All that time, he just liked me as a friend and was cheating on me with my so-called friends.\nTherapist: It sounds like you had a very confusing and painful experience in this relationship, and now you feel hesitant to let yourself get close to people. It is understandable that when we are hurt in relationships, we may have trouble trusting and allowing ourselves to be vulnerable with others. Therapy is a great place to explore the roots of present difficulties in relationships, to unpack what happened in prior relationships, and to find new ways to show up in relationships so that we can have the relaxed intimacy that we want.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-is-it-so-hard-for-me-to-be-social", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I let go of someone who continues to hurt me. Ive been in an on an off relationship with a this man for almost 3 years. Even though I care about him, he continues to hurt me.   He and his wife were separated when we met. Now he's going through a really difficult divorce from her and is taking it really hard.  I want to end this relationship, but I don't feel like I can. How can I let go?\nTherapist: Boy, ending relationships\u00a0is tough, isn't it? This is good news, because you don't necessarily have to be at\u00a0the end of the process to end an unhealthy relationship. They may even regret ending the relationship for a little while. It's okay to have moments of doubt and sadness along with a dash of guilt. There would be no guarantee that he would be doing any better after the divorce. Be well..Robin J. Landwehr, DBH, LPC, NCC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-let-go-of-someone-who-continues-to-hurt-me", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my family not accepting me as bisexual? After I told them, they yelled at me.\nTherapist: I am very sorry that this was your experience with your family. So, here are a few things I would suggest:Surround yourself with people and things that remind you that you really are okay as you are. They may even be worried if they are of a particular religion where being bisexual is forbidden. The reason I feel that this is important is that people sometimes take a lot of abuse from family members and friends in times like you're describing. If you start\u00a0seeing this pattern and you are struggling, chatting with\u00a0counselor may be a great idea.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-family-not-accepting-me-as-bisexual", "topics": "LGBTQ,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My sister and my husband had an affair. It was over 20 years ago, but the pain has resurfaced again now because I have started seeing her Facebook posts about how great her life is. I feel so angry. How can I handle this?\nTherapist: Then, you and your husband have a mediated safe talk. So both hear what you feel in the respective relationships. Possibly the last step is a mediated \u00a0safe talk with sister, husband and youcoversation, in the future.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-sister-and-my-husband-had-an-affair", "topics": "Family Conflict,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: My sister and my husband had an affair. It was over 20 years ago, but the pain has resurfaced again now because I have started seeing her Facebook posts about how great her life is. I feel so angry. How can I handle this?\nTherapist: What is going on in your life that brings up more sensitivity to the affair?The best way of handling your hurt is by noticing your own feelings and the current circumstances that increase your sense of pain. Concentrate on your own life and making your life the best it can be.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-sister-and-my-husband-had-an-affair", "topics": "Family Conflict,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How do I let go of someone who continues to hurt me. Ive been in an on an off relationship with a this man for almost 3 years. Even though I care about him, he continues to hurt me.   He and his wife were separated when we met. Now he's going through a really difficult divorce from her and is taking it really hard.  I want to end this relationship, but I don't feel like I can. How can I let go?\nTherapist: First decide what you truly would like in the current relationship. Understand your reasons for staying in the relationship. Three years is a substantial amount of time to be involved with someone. Whatever attachment you feel toward this man is deep and complex. Also important is to tell the man your feelings. Whatever problem you are feeling may become clarified by discussing what bothers you. At the very least, you will give the guy a chance to show how interested he actually is in the tension you currently feel and have felt for a while.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-let-go-of-someone-who-continues-to-hurt-me", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: How do I get back on my feet while going through a bad divorce? I am going through a divorce. He is extremely angry. He refuses to physically assist me with our teenager daughter. I have no extended family support. Often times, I feel overwhelmed, tired, and joyless. I feel out of control, sad and depressed on a daily basis. I am just going through the motions of life every day. I am in my mid-50s. I have almost 29 years on my job. How can I handle this?\nTherapist: Going through a divorce is often a very low point for the people involved. Are you surprised that your soon to be ex doesn't help with your teenage daughter?Usually patterns and dynamics in parenting are not \u00a0sudden developments. Take your emotional weariness seriously and reflect on the various ways of stress relief which are available and interest you. Since you talk about your daughter and help in physical ways, if it is a matter of strength that you need, talk with your attorney so that the child custody agreement includes whatever is physically necessary in the way of strength, in taking care of your daughter. The Courts are very good at making effort that the custody agreement offers proper care to the kids.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-back-on-my-feet-while-going-through-a-bad-divorce", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression"}, {"text": "User: I think my daughter is stressing too much. When my daughter is stressed about a silly thing from school, she starts crying and freaking out. She is a bright student, always has a 4.0, but I am afraid she is stressing too much. I\u2019m afraid it\u2019s going to break her. I don't know if I should get her to a doctor or someone because this is not normal.\nTherapist: Its hard to answer this question based on the information presented but I shall give it a go, Is it possible that your daughter is afraid of failing, I've seen many children and kids who get stressed out over grades or performance in sports, can you tell me \"what was your grade in fourth grade English? Or what was the score of the 7th game you played in football when you were a junior? Much of what happens to us is insignificant and we worry over things which really , in the long term don't matter much to us.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-think-my-daughter-is-stressing-too-much", "topics": "Stress,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with a lack of intimacy and partner's addiction to solo sex and porn? I believe my partner has a masturbation and porn problem. He masturbates daily, even when I am lying in bed sleeping beside him. We have sex once a week. He is rough and worries about his needs. He never touches me, and treats me like a porn star, wanting to finish on my face or chest.\nTherapist: It sounds like your in quite a rough place, my recommendation just based on what you type might warrant a visit to a psychotherapist to resolve what may be going on, I am not entirely sure but it sounds like he might have a bit of a sex addiction problem. One thing you need to ask yourself is \"Am I happy?\", \" these are deep questions, but the answers to those questions will give you a direction to travel in.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-a-lack-of-intimacy-and-partner-s-addiction-to-solo-sex-and-porn", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How can I manage my anxiety and depression so I can feel normal again? My motivation has gone away. It's hard to get out of bed. I really don't know what to do anymore. I'm miserable. My anxiety and depression have taken over my life.\nTherapist: One of the first steps is to manage anxiety and depression symptoms are to establish a good\u00a0self-care\u00a0routine. Mi ansiedad y depresi\u00f3n han tomado el control de mi vida. Tambi\u00e9n puedes contactar a tu medico primario o psiquiatra para discutir medicamentos que te pueden ayudar a manejar estos s\u00edntomas e iniciar cuidado b\u00e1sico.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-manage-my-anxiety-and-depression-so-i-can-feel-normal-again", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I control my anxiety? I started having anxiety three months ago. I'm new to having anxiety, and it's making me depressed.\nTherapist: One of the first steps is to manage anxiety and depression symptoms are to establish a good\u00a0self-care\u00a0routine. If you have difficulty initiating\u00a0self-care\u00a0routine talk to your therapist about what motivates you and pushes you to do things, you might find the key during the process. Ya que la rutina de cuidado eta establecida, es un buen momento para comenzar a explorar la fuente de tus sentimientos negativos, y expl\u00f3ralos a trav\u00e9s de terapia.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-my-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I manage my anxiety and depression so I can feel normal again? My motivation has gone away. It's hard to get out of bed. I really don't know what to do anymore. I'm miserable. My anxiety and depression have taken over my life.\nTherapist: Anxiety and Depression are challenging experiences to live with and to manage on a daily basis. I would say that both are challenges to overcome but solutions to living healthy and well exist. With friends, family, partners, counselors, and other trusted people in your life. Step 2: Create a plan with a counselor to learn new skills that help you recognize and manage your symptoms. Working on yourself can be difficult and hard at the beginning. Stick with it and you will be able to find exercises, tools, and resources that help you live well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-manage-my-anxiety-and-depression-so-i-can-feel-normal-again", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend wants to know every details of my sex life. We've been dating for two months now. I have a heavy past that gets him angry. Does he have a right to penalize me for things I did before I met him?\nTherapist: How is he penalizing you?Have you asked for his reasons for wanting to know about your heavy past?His answers may be very different than that he would like penalizing you. What you can do is explain how pressured you feel by his questions. Ideally, the two of you will become much closer by talking openly about your respective discomforts and wishes from the other.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-wants-to-know-every-details-of-my-sex-life", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Is there a reason I have always been attracted to men much older then me? I am a young adult, and I was sexually assaulted by an older man when I was a teenager (which has really intensified the guilt/shame). However, I've been attracted to much older men since I was even younger than that.\nTherapist: Sometimes the reason for being attracted to older men is because of growing up with a father who was distant. If you grew up having enough interaction with your dad to know you'd have liked more and didn't receive this, then maybe your longings of childhood are still active within you. Just be sure you're not idealizing them, or anyone else. Because regardless of age, a relationship is based on who the two people really are, not how we'd like imagining them.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-there-a-reason-i-have-always-been-attracted-to-men-much-older-then-me", "topics": "Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: My traditional family is opposed to me moving in with my boyfriend who is 13 years older. nan\nTherapist: Has any of your family members told you their reasons for their opinion?Find this out first. If you have a somewhat reasonable relationship with family members, their views may give you insight on your relationship and on you. How much do you care about what your family is telling you?Maybe be honest with first yourself and then your family about appreciating their interest and concern, and that you've different ideas on ways to live, than they do. As long as you and your family are able to talk about the differences between your points of view, then everyone is supporting good will. This makes living with any disagreements, much easier.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-traditional-family-is-opposed-to-me-moving-in-with-my-boyfriend-who-is-13-years-older", "topics": "Relationships,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My sister and my husband had an affair. It was over 20 years ago, but the pain has resurfaced again now because I have started seeing her Facebook posts about how great her life is. I feel so angry. How can I handle this?\nTherapist: Emotional pain is different from physical pain that way, isn't it? Perhaps not, as your contact with her seems to be through watching her facebook activity. Are you feeling more open lately to seeing how she's doing in her life? I guess if you were open to having your sister even in the periphery of your life again, you will have to figure out how to handle those triggers. For you to spend time feeling angry doesn't affect her burden. If you continue to struggle, please seek the help of a professional who can assist you in navigating these waters. :)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-sister-and-my-husband-had-an-affair", "topics": "Family Conflict,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: My husband said he loves me but is not in love with me. Three weeks ago, he said he loves me but is not in love with me. He was going to leave me, but he said he thought about it and decided to stay. He has been very blunt, and hurtful words just come out of his mouth. He makes me feel like I'm nothing, but I so dearly love him with everything in me.\nTherapist: Your husband tells you that he's not in love with you, but oops, he's changed his mind and will tolerate you for a while longer? My Dear, it's okay if you expect more than that from a marriage. Maybe the question has shifted from whether he is happy in the marriage to whether you are happy in the marriage. You say you love this man, \u00a0who makes you \"feel like nothing\". I say it might be time to sit down with an individual therapist and look objectively at your marriage and whether it's working for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-said-he-loves-me-but-is-not-in-love-with-me", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend wants to know every details of my sex life. We've been dating for two months now. I have a heavy past that gets him angry. Does he have a right to penalize me for things I did before I met him?\nTherapist: At this early stage, this is a bit of a warning sign. If he can't accept or feel comfortable with who you are and decisions you've made, there's already a level of discomfort here that shouldn't be ignored. No, he doesn't have the right to penalize you or punish you ...not just for past things...not for anything. What he does get to do it tell you how it affects him. Sure...if he feels uncomfortable or needs reassurance...listen to those things.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-wants-to-know-every-details-of-my-sex-life", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with a lack of intimacy and partner's addiction to solo sex and porn? I believe my partner has a masturbation and porn problem. He masturbates daily, even when I am lying in bed sleeping beside him. We have sex once a week. He is rough and worries about his needs. He never touches me, and treats me like a porn star, wanting to finish on my face or chest.\nTherapist: There is a lot of information out there right now about how porn is harmful...to a person's brain chemistry, to a relationship and one's ability to love, and to how men see women and sex in general. Your partner demonstrates a clear disregard for your needs. There is evidence, as you suggest, that there is addiction here. I recommend seeing a therapist who can help you sort out where to go from here.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-a-lack-of-intimacy-and-partner-s-addiction-to-solo-sex-and-porn", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop worrying much? I have a bad habit of thinking and worrying about what others may think of me. I really want to stop it and enjoy things.\nTherapist: Thinking about what others think of us is a natural tendency. Human beings are social creatures and rely on feedback from the outside world of people, places, and things to let us know more about ourselves. We also have an inner voice, dialogue, conscience, etc. that helps us to determine the path for us. Often, when someone is worried about the external feedback, and focuses on this as the sole source of information, it can create a dependency that can become problematic. Your own voice is powerful and has strength to provide you the enjoyment you seek. Don't discount it and rely only on the voices of others.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-worrying-much", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I feel like I'm going to get fired because I cried at work. I'm a teenager, and I just got my first job. I am a month and a half in. Yesterday, my boss pushed me to the point where I had to go to the restroom and cry. She didn't see me, and I'm glad, but when I went to talk to her about it today, I let a tear or two come out. I hate it. I feel like they're not going to keep me anymore.\nTherapist: Getting your first job is an exciting, terrifying, and challenging experience. It is something you will remember for a long time and it shapes how you begin to think about yourself as a worker. If you feel like your supervisor is approachable, meaning someone you could talk to because they express confidence in you, let them know you are nervous about doing a good job. Becoming a successful worker doesn't happen overnight, but each day you can identify what works for you and what doesn't by communicating with your work team, the easier it will be for you. We all had a first job once, and were all worried about doing well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-i-m-going-to-get-fired-because-i-cried-at-work", "topics": "Workplace Relationships,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: How can I manage my anxiety and depression so I can feel normal again? My motivation has gone away. It's hard to get out of bed. I really don't know what to do anymore. I'm miserable. My anxiety and depression have taken over my life.\nTherapist: It is challenging to maintain motivation at all times, anxiety and depression can set in which can make interacting with others a \u00a0struggle, it can lead us to do things that make us not feel good and we become isolated. This ends up feeding into a cycle that maintains the anxiety/depression loop \u00a0and can be really challenging to step out of it. You are in a place of awareness and this is the first step in making changes that can help you feel better.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-manage-my-anxiety-and-depression-so-i-can-feel-normal-again", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel so lonely when I have friends and attention? I live a normal life. I have tons of friends and family, but I feel lonely.\nTherapist: This may be happening because you and the others are not connected to each other on a level which reaches your emotions. Loneliness may show the absence of feeling a variety of emotions when you are among others. How many friends you have doesn't affect whether you and someone else feel emotionally engaged with one another. Consider if you feel like concentrating your friendship on more intensively sharing your feelings with a few of your friends. This may lead to fewer friends who are also more meaningful to you and your feeling a decrease of loneliness.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-so-lonely-when-i-have-friends-and-attention", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I manage my anxiety? I have twin toddlers. I experienced a death of loved one prior to giving birth. I had a horrible break up with the father. People told him he was using me for money. My ex-boyfriend had extreme meltdowns every day for three years. I\u2019m always alone with no friends.\nTherapist: First, let me say that you are a survivor and a warrior. Managing 1 child by yourself is difficult, but twins is a whole different ballgame. Anxiety can affect us at any time anywhere. This is the challenge, especially when we have so many things to manage each day. It will depend on what works best for you. Talk with friends, a counselor, or a loved one who can offer you support and feedback as you navigate this process of learning what works for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-manage-my-anxiety-2", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: I think my daughter is stressing too much. When my daughter is stressed about a silly thing from school, she starts crying and freaking out. She is a bright student, always has a 4.0, but I am afraid she is stressing too much. I\u2019m afraid it\u2019s going to break her. I don't know if I should get her to a doctor or someone because this is not normal.\nTherapist: Watching children go through challenges in their lives is difficult. On a very basic level, There exists a primal need to protect them from harm. The hard part for parents is letting them feel those challenges and working through them as they get older. Children no longer need the basics (food, shelter. water, safety) as much as when they were toddlers, but rather, their needs shift to wanting more support, encouragement, advice, and room to make mistakes. This is where the ability to communicate with them, letting them direct the sails to gather the wind needed to move, is so important.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-think-my-daughter-is-stressing-too-much", "topics": "Stress,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Why do I always feel like I'm being watched? I often get the feeling that I'm being watched, like video cameras are hidden wherever I am, even at home. I feel like people can see all that I do and are reading my thoughts. Things I read or hear on the radio seem to be about (or meant for) me, and people are talking about me when they whisper.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are feeling pretty overwhelmed with worry about being continuously monitored, with no privacy even in your own mind, and as if people are constantly saying things about you in whispers on in the media. It's hard to say from a post online what is at the root of this experience, but you may be able to get insight into that, as well as develop ways of coping with the distress of feeling this way, with the help of a good therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-always-feel-like-i-m-being-watched", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I feel like my life is pointless. I have absolutely nothing to do with my life but lay in bed on my phone or hangout with my one friend. I don't have a job, my family doesn't include me in anything, and I don't have many friends. I have nothing to do besides go on my phone. I miss talking to people in person instead of online. I don't even talk to my family in person even from the other room.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are feeling pretty stuck, lonely, and hopeless; like you have a desire to be more connected to people and to find purpose in life, but are not sure what to do. Additionally, anything you can do to give yourself a little break from the feeling of pointlessness and any ruminating thoughts you may be having may be of help. I know it may sound pointless in the moment, and you may feel a great deal of inertia in doing so, but you may find that if you force yourself to do something small that is pleasurable, like taking a walk for example, there's a good chance you will be glad that you did so after the fact.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-my-life-is-pointless", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Is it strange that a male family member always want to play with my toddler daughter? nan\nTherapist: Without knowing the male family member's reason for always wanting to play with your toddler, yes, it is strange. Find out if the person has a reason for his preference and what this is. Are they studying child development in school and observing your toddler in order to write a paper?Is your male family member very shy or doesn't care for the other people in the household and plays with your toddler as a way to avoid this?You don't have to ask this one, simply observe and add this to what you already know about the person.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-strange-that-a-male-family-member-always-want-to-play-with-my-toddler-daughter", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Might I have depression? I sleep a lot. Music changes my mood. I cry every Wednesday. My mind is like a maze that even I get lost in. I don't usually feel my true emotions, but instead, I get fake mirrored ones.\nTherapist: What happens in your life on Wednesdays that you feel like crying? Maybe you would qualify for a diagnosis for depression. This matters less than what you will do with a diagnosis. It is a good sign that you know whether you feel true emotions or fake ones. Depression which is addressed by a person can become quite liberating because you will remove what bothers you so much in your life that it weighs you down and depresses you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/might-i-have-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I bring up my possible depression to my parents? I am not sure if I am depressed. I don't know how to bring it up to my parents, and that makes me miserable.\nTherapist: Depending on your relationship with your parents, inviting them to have a conversation might be a good first step. If they consent then you can have the opportunity to discuss your concerns with them. Inviting someone to a conversation and getting their agreement is a great first step. I would then make sure your location of the discussion is conducive to the conversation and once all that is considered it might be beneficial that you make a list of your concerns prior to the meeting.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-bring-up-my-possible-depression-to-my-parents", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Should I move on from my ex-husband? My husband and I are separated. He says he needs some time apart. He says he needs to get back the \u201cin love\u201d part of a relationship but doesn\u2019t want to lose me. Should I wait or start over new?\nTherapist: It's not uncommon for relationships to go cold over time. It is a matter of one or the other becoming complacent. While this is a good thing in some ways, it can also become boring and you run the risk of losing that \"in love\" feeling he is referring to. I offer homework to be done during this time. It often times brings more appreciation for their partners. When the pair comes back together, we are able to push the reset button and begin a new chapter that is more fulfilling and exciting than before.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-move-on-from-my-ex-husband", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: How can I move forward from my boyfriend leaving me with no explanation? nan\nTherapist: You can move on from a relationship that ends abruptly with no explanation. One way you can do this is by creating your own narrative around what happened. Chances are, you were not fully getting what you wanted out of the relationship either. He just happened to be the one that called it quits first. Start by sitting down with a journal and summarizing the time line of the relationship. Include both the good and bad, the ups and downs. Be thankful that you were released from continuing any further with someone who was not meant to be your long-term partner but express gratefulness for the season and all you learned.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-move-forward-from-my-boyfriend-leaving-me-with-no-explanation", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: I feel like I'm going to get fired because I cried at work. I'm a teenager, and I just got my first job. I am a month and a half in. Yesterday, my boss pushed me to the point where I had to go to the restroom and cry. She didn't see me, and I'm glad, but when I went to talk to her about it today, I let a tear or two come out. I hate it. I feel like they're not going to keep me anymore.\nTherapist: How sad for you!I'm sorry your first job is turning into a place of tension. Did the matter between you and your boss get resolved?Do you feel respected by your boss and does she listen to your point of view, even if afterwards, she disagrees?Keep an open mind over the next several weeks or few months on how you feel in your new work situation. Expect to be treated fairly and reasonably. If this is not the way you feel most of the time, then consider finding a new place to work.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-i-m-going-to-get-fired-because-i-cried-at-work", "topics": "Workplace Relationships,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: I think my daughter is stressing too much. When my daughter is stressed about a silly thing from school, she starts crying and freaking out. She is a bright student, always has a 4.0, but I am afraid she is stressing too much. I\u2019m afraid it\u2019s going to break her. I don't know if I should get her to a doctor or someone because this is not normal.\nTherapist: I agree with your observation about your daughter feeling stressed. Are you able to open this topic in conversation with her?Also, reflect on your own expectations as a parent. It is possible that your daughter is trying to please you by getting consistently high grades. If your daughter prefers talking in confidence to a therapist, then this may help her regain a sense of balance in her life so that schoolwork feels less stressful. While the stress may have physical symptoms, addressing the root cause of the problem has nothing to do directly with something being physically wrong with your daughter.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-think-my-daughter-is-stressing-too-much", "topics": "Stress,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How can I bring up my possible depression to my parents? I am not sure if I am depressed. I don't know how to bring it up to my parents, and that makes me miserable.\nTherapist: I do think it's a good idea to share your feelings with your parents and perhaps get some help connecting with a counselor or therapist if you feel that might help. There are lots of ways to tell them, depending on your relationship. Maybe saying \"I wanted to tell you guys something.. sometimes I worry that I might be depressed.\" The most important thing is that you tell someone you trust so you don't feel so miserable.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-bring-up-my-possible-depression-to-my-parents", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with gender dysphoria in a positive way? I'm transgender, I know I am, but I've only told a few friends. I know I can't tell my family because of previous conversations we've had. They just wouldn't accept it. My gender dysphoria is getting really difficult to deal with on my own. I need some strategies for dealing with it. What should I do?\nTherapist: Sounds like you have some solid support in some areas of your life but are still dealing with some difficult dysphoria. Sometimes physical dysphoria means less time around mirrors or plans to make showering less stressful (music, audio books, distraction). Some of my clients do things that help them feel better in their bodies that don't require anyone to know (hair removal, binders, packing, hormones,) and other things. I recommend stopping by a website called Conversations with a Gender Therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-gender-dysphoria-in-a-positive-way", "topics": "Human Sexuality,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: What should I do about my stress before track meets? I am on the track and softball team. My school is small, so I play all four sports it offers. I feel obligated to do track because I'm not a horrible runner, and my dad wants me to. The catch is is that the days before a track meet and the morning of, I get sick and cry.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are no longer committed to track emotionally. It can be hard to talk to your dad about this, but he may think you love track and may not know you are getting so upset the days of meets. An idea would be to first write a letter to your dad to see what feelings come out and then preparing to speak with him. I think he will appreciate your honesty and maybe this conversation will bring you relief and also time to find something you really will enjoy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-about-my-stress-before-track-meets", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I stop feeling jealous in my relationship? My boyfriend and I have been going out for about a year. I suddenly find myself jealous when I see him talking to other girls. I have never been this way before. I don't like these feelings. He said that my jealousy would cause our relationship to have problems. I told him I can't help these feelings. I don't know where they are coming from, but this is how I feel, I tried to stop, but I can't. I really like this guy, but I'm afraid that I'm messing up the relationship. It's just stupid.\nTherapist: Trust is at the top of what makes a healthy relationship. It sounds like you may benefit from personal counseling to explore where this jealousy comes from and what keeps you from having complete trust in your boyfriend. This is not stupid, this is your mind telling you that there is something that needs to be worked through. Sometimes we need to talk to someone like a counselor who is disconnected from our life to understand our feelings and what they mean in our relationships.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stop-feeling-jealous-in-my-relationship", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over my anxiety of talking to new people? I'm socially awkward. I've always want to be popular. I've had the opportunity to be popular, but every time I get i,t I'm too scared. All I have to do is talk the popular people. They're really nice to me, but I'm too scared of change. I really want to work up the courage to lose my fear.\nTherapist: Change can be uncomfortable, but sometimes those uncomfortable moments are the opportunity for us to be the person we feel we really are. It sounds like you like to spend the time in your head anticipating the worst, why not be in the present and encourage yourself that you can talk to people and it will be okay. By telling yourself it will not be okay, or that it will go wrong you are hurting your confidence to do what you want. Give yourself some credit for being awesome and tell yourself you can build new friendships...it may be the motivation you need to move past this fear.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-my-anxiety-of-talking-to-new-people", "topics": "Anxiety,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm starting to believe that I'm gay. In middle school and high school, my friends and family thought I was gay. I tried telling them, but they wouldn\u2019t believe me. It almost feels like they wanted me to be. Now I\u2019m actually starting to believe them. I know I wasn\u2019t back then, and now I\u2019m not sure anymore.\nTherapist: Use this time to explore who you are...imagine what your life would be like if you were gay and not, ask yourself what is different? What scenario do you find yourself gravitating to? My message to you is that you do not need to define yourself with your sexual preference or feel the need to label yourself, especially if you are confused and exploring what your sexual preference is.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-starting-to-believe-that-i-m-gay", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How should we punish our son for peeing his pants because of laziness? He is an adolescent. He has peed his pant multiple times over the last few years, all at times when he is too wrapped up in a video game or video. We have taken away games and videos for long periods of time as punishment, but after a few months of having then back, he pees his pants again.\nTherapist: From a behavioral standpoint you should refrain from punishing your son. Instead of utilizing punishment when he wets himself provide contingencies prior to any accidents. This way if an accident occurs, no heated words have to be exchanged because you have already laid the ground work. Since you have stated that you have an adolescent who is experiencing enuresis, you may want to check with your PCP and a licensed professional for underlying diagnosis that can be treated. You can also call a local behavioral analyst.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-should-we-punish-our-son-for-peeing-his-pants-because-of-laziness", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How should we punish our son for peeing his pants because of laziness? He is an adolescent. He has peed his pant multiple times over the last few years, all at times when he is too wrapped up in a video game or video. We have taken away games and videos for long periods of time as punishment, but after a few months of having then back, he pees his pants again.\nTherapist: Sounds as though your son is \"pissed off\" about something. \"Laziness\" is more of a social judgement than it is a characteristic of its own merit. If he has medical clearance that there is no physiological \u00a0problem, then talk with your son on his opinions as to why he pees, if he is aware of the urge to pee and ignores it, or that his attention gets so absorbed he doesn't notice the urge to pee. See what modifications you can create by cooperating with your son.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-should-we-punish-our-son-for-peeing-his-pants-because-of-laziness", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: What should I do about my stress before track meets? I am on the track and softball team. My school is small, so I play all four sports it offers. I feel obligated to do track because I'm not a horrible runner, and my dad wants me to. The catch is is that the days before a track meet and the morning of, I get sick and cry.\nTherapist: Does anyone notice that you get sick and cry on track meet days?Have you told anyone?From what you write, as much as you would like to please your school and dad, something within you doesn't quite want to fully follow through. Step one in life always is to know what you want and what your limits are. It already is difficult to avoid listening to your body. Try understanding what is difficult in telling your father that you'd like doing as he wishes, only are not able to do so because you are emotionally and physically distraught on the days you have track. If he does not and track is more important than your well being, then you have a different problem entirely.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-about-my-stress-before-track-meets", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I start taking initiative in my relationship? I don't speak up if I'm uncomfortable and hardly ever make plans for us when we hang out. He is a very open and straightforward person, so he is getting upset with me for my lack of proper communication. We've been together two years and have identified this as our main problem. Arguments have arised from this single issue many times.\nTherapist: Do you know what you're afraid may happen if you do speak up?Usually people don't talk freely because they feel afraid to do so. If you are able to know what your particular reason is for not talking, then maybe you and your partner can talk about what makes talking easy or hard. Also, since speaking up is new for you, then ask your partner to be patient while you learn to do so. Everyone does better at learning new skills when they feel supported and welcomed.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-start-taking-initiative-in-my-relationship", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I help my husband get over his drinking addiction? nan\nTherapist: By being truthful with him about how his drinking affects you. People who are addicted to a substance, have tremendous emotional pain they are covering up. Show your love and express your own wishes on what you'd like from him. This may encourage him to try loving you back instead of drinking to feel better about himself. My best advice is to stay clear that your love is no guarantee he will want to look at his deep emotional pain, clean it out and be open to loving you and to stop harming himself with excess alcohol. Try not to get lost into offering more help than he is able to utilize.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-help-my-husband-get-over-his-drinking-addiction", "topics": "Addiction"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with gender dysphoria in a positive way? I'm transgender, I know I am, but I've only told a few friends. I know I can't tell my family because of previous conversations we've had. They just wouldn't accept it. My gender dysphoria is getting really difficult to deal with on my own. I need some strategies for dealing with it. What should I do?\nTherapist: This is a difficult situation to be in, as it sounds like you are feeling very isolated from both your family and your friends. I don't know your age or gender so please excuse any incorrect assumptions about you being under 18 and use what is useful from the ideas if you are older. You can let your parents know that you would like to see that particular therapist for other reasons, such as anxiety/worry, and that you researched them and liked their website. Making new friends online through social media can sometimes be a start in breaking down the isolation you feel.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-gender-dysphoria-in-a-positive-way", "topics": "Human Sexuality,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How do I trust others? I'm having problems shutting them out and putting up walls.\nTherapist: It sounds like you would like to let other people get close to you and at the same time you are finding yourself compelled to keep people at a distance. Often times, when we have difficulty trusting others, it is because we have specific fears about what would happen if we get close or let our guard down. Such fears may be rooted in past experiences in relationships in which we were hurt and or disappointed. In working with a therapist, you can gain insight into what is underneath your compulsion to put walls around yourself and develop ways to form authentic, lasting, satisfying relationships with others.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-trust-others", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I bring up my possible depression to my parents? I am not sure if I am depressed. I don't know how to bring it up to my parents, and that makes me miserable.\nTherapist: You are not alone, many people fear opening up to family members about the topic of depression or mental illness. There are many different reason why some may fear telling their parents. The most common thoughts I hear in my office are: \" My parents won't understand me\", I may cause more problems to the family\", \"I am worried that something bad may happen if I tell them\". Just a helpful tip: positive self-talk can be beneficial before having difficult conversations with others. For example, tell yourself something positive before talking to your parents such as \"I feel confident in myself, and I am doing this to overcome my fear of talking to my parents\" can help to decrease the anxiety you are feeling leading up to the conversation.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-bring-up-my-possible-depression-to-my-parents", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Is there anything I can do about my depression and anxiety? I have been dealing with depression and anxiety for a number of years. I have been on medication, but lately my depression has felt worse. Can counseling help?\nTherapist: Thank you for asking this important question. Step one is expressing interest in wanting to receiving treatment for the outcome of positive behavioral change. You are showing your readiness to start counseling by asking this question. Now the second step is to find a counselor who specializes in treating clients with Anxiety and Depression. Receiving meditation for your symptoms if part of the treatment, and the other part is receiving counseling to increase your resilience for future events. However, remind yourself that you are doing this to improve your well being.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-there-anything-i-can-do-about-my-depression-and-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I get back to being the person I truly am? I feel like I am not at a good state of mind. I'm very unsettled in my soul. I'm not happy with myself or the decisions I make, which makes me not happy with anyone else. I feel like a failure most of my days. I don't feel like I'm good at anything anymore. I feel like less of a person.\nTherapist: It seems like you may be experiencing depression symptoms, they could be the triggered by unexpected life changes, or building up throughout time. You mentioned that you feel unsettled in your soul: explore your spirituality, meditate about what makes your soul at peace, and find ways to practice that or surround yourself by those activities. Tambi\u00e9n es un buen momento para explorar tu espiritualidad mas profundamente y tu prop\u00f3sito en la vida, cuando encontramos un prop\u00f3sito y como ejercerlo, tendemos a ser m\u00e1s felices con nosotros mismos y con los dem\u00e1s.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-back-to-being-the-person-i-truly-am", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Should I feel guilty if my adult daughter cannot afford to go on a family vacation? I have four children. One of them is in her 20s, and she cannot afford to go, nor can I pay for her. She went last year for two weeks by herself.\nTherapist: Of what do you feel you'd be guilty?Family vacations are not a basic human right to existence. You're not violating a basic human right. You wrote that you don't have enough money to pay for her to come along. You may find yourself feeling more guilty toward yourself if you give more than you reasonably can afford to give. My suggestion is to tell your daughter your reason for not taking her along. Maybe this will open more dialogue between the two of you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-feel-guilty-if-my-adult-daughter-cannot-afford-to-go-on-a-family-vacation", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How can I free myself from my narcissistic, codependent, ill mother? I'm in my mid-twenties now, and my boyfriend of seven years and I want to start a life. My mother is 100% codependent on me and is extremely manipulative. She suffers from type 1 diabetes, which she uses to guilt me if I ever leave her. The problem is that I will feel guilty.\nTherapist: Focus more on your own life and less on the very heavy descriptors you wrote to describe your mom. All the words you wrote represent psychological conditions which are either lifelong or take a lot of motivation and effort to change. Since the only person who can change how your mom handles her life, is your mom, and you are the only one who can do the same for yourself, devote more energy and time to living your own life fully, despite the emotions you feel regarding her.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-free-myself-from-my-narcissistic-codependent-ill-mother", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Why do I always feel anxious? It's especially bad at night time. I am scared of sleeping alone.\nTherapist: Being able to know you feel anxiety and write about it, is the first step to addressing and handling it!Generally, anxiety is deep fear of not being able to handle what comes up in life. Somehow the person was insufficiently nurtured and so felt \u00a0insecure when very young. Usually the person had to fend on at least a psychological and emotional level for themselves before reaching an age when doing so would have been reasonable. Try asking yourself what you are afraid of and theorize how you would handle these situations as a grown person. Also, sometimes anxiety comes from feeling lonely.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-always-feel-anxious", "topics": "Sleep Improvement,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Is there anything I can do to help my siblings escape our emotionally abusive father? I'm in college currently, so I am not a direct victim anymore. My father is very abusive with his words and actions, and my siblings are getting treated horribly.\nTherapist: Emotional and verbal abuse can cause a negative impact in your family. It\u2019s also a good idea to talk to your mom about the issue and ask her if she would like help as well. Ellos investigaran y determinaran si el hogar es un ambiente seguro par tus hermanos y recomendaran terapia o clases para tu papa.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-there-anything-i-can-do-to-help-my-siblings-escape-our-emotionally-abusive-father", "topics": "Family Conflict,Domestic Violence"}, {"text": "User: My sister and my husband had an affair. It was over 20 years ago, but the pain has resurfaced again now because I have started seeing her Facebook posts about how great her life is. I feel so angry. How can I handle this?\nTherapist: First thing that you must realize is that most people only post the \"best parts\" of their lives on Facebook, some people even go so far as to make their lives seem better or more interesting and post mostly false views of their life. Facebook is watered down, candied version of our life, you put on there only what you want people to see. The questions you should ask is \"How have I grown from this?\", Is my marriage currently in a good place?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-sister-and-my-husband-had-an-affair", "topics": "Family Conflict,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How do I get rid of my nightmares? I have been having horrendous nightmares this whole month.\nTherapist: Are you facing any type of overwhelming situation in your waking life?Dreams and nightmares are the non-logical ways in which we make emotional sense of what goes on in our everyday waking world. Pay attention to the story of your nightmare because it reflects how you feel in waking life. If you feel helpless and silenced in your nightmare, or taken advantage of, or whatever dreadful situation goes on during your nightmare, then look for where in waking life, you may feel similar. In this way, you'll become clearer about stressors in your life that you may not have realized existed were it not for the stress of nightmares.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-rid-of-my-nightmares", "topics": "Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: My husband seems to be changing, and I feel angry and hurt. My husband took a job out of state for the next year and seems to be a different person. Before, he worked and slept, and on off days, he'd stay home because he didn't want to do anything else. Now he's going out with friends several nights a week while I'm still home working a 50 hours a week job and taking care of two kids by myself.\nTherapist: My first concern is you: As you stated, you have been emotionally starving for the past five years. Please try to find time for you; to clarify your thoughts and feelings by writing, talking to a trusted friend or family member and perhaps seeing a therapist. What's really going on with your husband? Does he discuss in detail his sudden change? Before you go to couples counseling, I suggest that you get some support first to feel grounded within yourself and your life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-seems-to-be-changing-and-i-feel-angry-and-hurt", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: My friends don't put effort into our relationship. It's really hard to not have negative feelings about friends who don't put any effort into nourishing our relationship.\nTherapist: Interpersonal relationship (either positive or negatives) need to or more persons who give and receive: attention, dedication, time and communication. Consider what is that you are going trough yourself and with your relationship, talk to your friend about your concern; let him (her) know that you would like to spend more time together. Si sientes que tu amigo(a) no tiene ning\u00fan inter\u00e9s, buscar hacer nuevas conexiones, y enf\u00f3cate m\u00e1s en ti y en otras actividades.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-friends-don-t-put-effort-into-our-relationship", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with a man who only contributes financially? My boyfriend of eight years and father of our two children is a truck driver. He is never home and only contributes to our family financially. There is no other support given. He comes home when able, sleeps, gives money, and leaves again. I can't get him to do anything with me or the kids. He just sleeps and works.\nTherapist: After eight years and two children\u2019s, people change. I suggest to talk to him about how you feel, let him know that although he is gone for a long time, his presence as a husband and father are required and important. No puedo lograr que haga nada conmigo y los ni\u00f1os. Te sugiero que hables con tu pareja sobre c\u00f3mo te dientes, d\u00e9jale saber que aunque el esta fuera la mayor\u00eda del tiempo, su presencia como pareja y padre es requerida e importante.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-a-man-who-only-contributes-financially", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I fall back in love with my wife? My wife works late most days, so I'm lonely. I love my wife with all my heart, however I don't feel the intimacy we used to have. We don't have sex anymore, which bothers me tremendously. I have become close friends with a coworker, which I know is not helping. Nothing will happen with that, but there\u2019s the thought.\nTherapist: Friendships that develop in times of struggle may be a great emotional support, but also become confusing there's sexual attraction. Even when you are in a friend zone and not having intimacy with this person, you may be developing a special bond, sharing interest and activities that may lead to a deeper connection. I suggest being transparent and talking to your wife about your feelings and concerns. Las amistades que se desarrollan en momentos de crisis pueden ser un gran apoyo emocional, pero tambi\u00e9n pueden convertirse en algo nebuloso cuando hay atracci\u00f3n sexual.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-fall-back-in-love-with-my-wife", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: No matter what I do, my mom will almost always find something wrong with it. My mother has Alzheimer's and she has become so nasty and mean to everyone and she always asks for unrealistic, silly or meaningless items.  I get so frustrated and angry, but then I feel guilty because I know it probably isn\u2019t her fault.  How can I cope with feeling like this?\nTherapist: Yes, certainly your mom's difficulty in having meaningful conversations with people results from the Alzheimer's disease process which weakens her brain function. Feeling a sense of guilt in relation to a parent, is pretty common for everyone. This is because as little kids and babies, we had a strong reliance on a parent and believing every word they sad and wishing to follow each action they ask or demand, was for the benefit of our own survival. Ask what it is you're feeling guilty about?Chances are that your sense of guilt is less due to what you're currently saying or doing to help your mom.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/no-matter-what-i-do-my-mom-will-almost-always-find-something-wrong-with-it", "topics": "Alzheimer's,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell my elderly mother that I can\u2019t stay for long visits? My mother has Alzheimer's and I can see that she has lost some of her intellectual abilities.  Even though I know this disease is not her fault, I\u2019m still finding it difficult to separate my own feelings of disappointment and frustration when my mom seems to ignore my opinions and wishes, and seems\nTherapist: Good observation on your part, to distinguish that your feelings in relation to your mom are not necessarily connected to the way she handles her part of the relation toward you. Has your mom usually ignored your opinions and wishes in relating to you?If prior to the onset of Alzheimer's, she never examined her way of relating to you, and if both of you have never had an open conversation about your sense of feeling hurt by her attitudes and manner with you, then the relationship between you and your mom will change in ways other than rational dialogue. The good news for you about this is realizing that who you are and your way of relating to your mom, has very little to do with the way she relates to you. This is a more profound disappointment because it shows that her disconnect from you has been for longer than when the Alzheimer's began.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-my-elderly-mother-that-i-can-t-stay-for-long-visits", "topics": "Alzheimer's,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Is my depression sabotaging my job search? I keep feeling paralyzed and unsure during interviews. Previous jobs have fired me for lack of performance, and five employers have rejected me after extensive personality tests and interviews. I'm afraid of continuing because my depression is getting worse. I'm already humiliated working for temp agencies and doubt my self-worth as a provider for my family.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are feeling pretty overwhelmed and stuck between wanting to improve your work situation and worrying that you won't be able to. It is possible that the paralysis, uncertainty, and self-doubt that you describe are contributing to your difficulty in getting\u00a0 and maintaining a satisfying job as employers generally like to see that a potential employee is confident and can think on his or her feet. With a competent therapist, you may be able to get more understanding of the roots of these feelings and learn how to move forward in your search for a better work life in a way that leaves you feeling confident and capable.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-my-depression-sabotaging-my-job-search", "topics": "Self-esteem,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I know if I'm transgender? nan\nTherapist: First, I want to say that I am a cisgender therapist, and so I cannot speak to the personal experience of realizing that I am transgender. What I can do is tell you some of the things that transgender people have told me, and information that I have read. But, that doesn't mean that you can't get help to figure it all out. Here is a blog written by a trans male that I know. You are very likely to find some good information in his posts. https://letsqueerthingsup.com/Be well... be you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-know-if-i-m-transgender", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my boyfriend insulting my body? I'm in my early 20s, and I've been seeing my boyfriend for a year now. My boyfriend has always been the sweetest guy until recently. He has made comments such as \u201cyou would look better as a Tumblr girl\" or \"you should start doing more squats.\" It's really hurtful.\nTherapist: I am very sorry that you are experiencing this. The unfortunate truth is, there is very little we can\u00a0actually\u00a0do to change another adult's behavior if they are not interested in changing it. These are just more examples of emotional abuse and control. Here are some things to consider and some ideas:1. You could talk to your boyfriend about this behavior, if you believe it is safe to do so. On it you will find some other common ways that abuse can happen in a relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-boyfriend-insulting-my-body", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: What should my boyfriend and I do to cope with his cancer? We have been together over a year. We spend time together every day no matter how busy. He started to be unusually fatigued and losing weight. He also began to be distant and sexually selfish. We had a argument, and he confided he has late stage stomach cancer. He wont treat it.\nTherapist: I am very sorry about this life-altering situation that both you and your boyfriend are going through. To be sure, this is a devastating and lonely road for both of you. I say lonely because when things like this happen we often don't know what to say to each other, and so we suffer in silence with little support. If it is possible, see if he would be willing to go to a counselor with you. If he refuses to seek support, you may want to consider going on your own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-my-boyfriend-and-i-do-to-cope-with-his-cancer", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I kick my stepdaughter out of our house because she isn't honoring boundaries set for her? She's in her early 20s, and she has a toddler.\nTherapist: Well, first let's identify what factors are involved in the situation about which you wrote. Are you the only decision maker regarding your stepdaughter living with you?Is her dad, and your partner, living under the same roof?Would you feel any obligation to consult with your husband about his opinion and his way of handling the situation?Have you talked with your stepdaughter about your observation and your reaction to the fact of her not honoring your boundaries?Consider too that there will be an effect on the toddler, your grandchild, if you kick out your daughter. It is only fair to everyone that as many variables as possible, be considered.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-kick-my-stepdaughter-out-of-our-house-because-she-isn-t-honoring-boundaries-set-for-her", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: What should I do about not being sexually attracted to my girlfriend of five years? Nothing we've tried has worked so far.\nTherapist: Probably what you should do is decide whether you can continue having a romantic and sexual relationship with someone to whom you don't feel like having sex. Five years is long enough to know that the way you feel toward your partner is more than likely going to remain this way. Talk with your gf about your feelings because she may not wish to be in a relationship in which her partner is not sexually attracted to her.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-about-not-being-sexually-attracted-to-my-girlfriend-of-five-years", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why am I so protective of my friends and family? Any time my family and friends are in an altercation, I\u2019m the one who steps in. I\u2019m the one they call to fight for them. I do this even though I have a tough time trusting the people I\u2019m fighting for. I\u2019m only in my early 20s.\nTherapist: Breaking the patterns of relating to family members, is difficult work. Definitely, the fact that you're writing about the problem, shows you feel like doing something which feels better than how you feel currently. It is very healthy for you to listen to your gut intuition telling you to pull out of the mediator role you are in currently. You may feel guilty, your family members will most likely do everything possible to persuade, convince, \u00a0and push you back into their arguments. This doesn't make them right in what they're doing, it only makes your job harder of trying to let them have their fights on their own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-so-protective-of-my-friends-and-family", "topics": "Social Relationships,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can my marriage be fixed? I've only been married three months. Every week, we argue about something, and it seems to be getting worse.\nTherapist: At the begin g of marriages, we expect to be living on an eternal honeymoon, but the reality can be different. Discuss your roles and expectations, this is normally done over a marriage preparation class, is never too late to sit down a talk about what you want and look for in a husband/wife and clarify your roles and rules. Es un proceso de adaptaci\u00f3n, sin importar por cu\u00e1nto tiempo hayas conocido a tu pareja.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-my-marriage-be-fixed", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: What can I do when I feel like my life is out of control? I was in a car accident and totaled my car. I gave up my job of nine years to pursue school full-time to better myself. I failed a class, and my boyfriend that I live with thinks I\u2019m stupid and wants to break up with me. I have nowhere to go, and I feel like I\u2019m losing everything.\nTherapist: When we feel overwhelmed by life situations, it is important to understand where the feeling is coming from. Once we understand the source, it is important to normalize the situations that got us there and find balance in our lives. Deje mi trabajo de 9 a\u00f1os para completar un grado a tiempo completo. En todo momento: enf\u00f3cate en cuidarte a ti misma y mejorar tu autoestima, aumenta las actividades que te ayudan a sentirte bien, medita sobre lo que te paz y pasa m\u00e1s tiempo practicando esas actividades.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-when-i-feel-like-my-life-is-out-of-control", "topics": "Stress,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my dad being on drugs? My dad is doing some really bad drugs, and I'm not allowed to see him anymore because of what he can do to me or my siblings on this drug. It has affected me tremendously in my life. It\u2019s even caused me anger and stress.\nTherapist: It seems like you are going trough stages of grief, since the inability to see your father causes you similar feelings as if you had lost him. But do understand that if he is under the influence of drugs he might not be able to empathize with your feelings or react in the way that he would have done so in the past. \u00bfQu\u00e9 puedo hacer con mi padre usuario de drogas?Mi papa est\u00e1 usando drogas muy malas, y no estoy autorizada a verlo por lo que me puede hacer a m\u00ed y a mis hermanos.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-dad-being-on-drugs", "topics": "Family Conflict,Stress"}, {"text": "User: Why won't my boyfriend have sex with me? nan\nTherapist: I am not sure that we can be much help since we know very little about your situation. For example, we don't know how old you are or if you have previously had a\u00a0satisfying sex life. So, I will just name a few things that can impact someone's interest in sex, and some colleagues may add others. I suggest approaching your partner with compassion and concern. He may also be aware that there is a problem and is afraid or embarrassed to talk to you about it. A person has difficulty with sex for some reason, which generates anxiety, which can actually lead to more difficulty with sex.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-won-t-my-boyfriend-have-sex-with-me", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How does a counselor diagnose someone with a disorder? nan\nTherapist: Different Licensed Professionals are trained to use different types of tests and interviews to identify symptoms and draw a diagnosis. In Counseling\u00a0we use\u00a0an interview evaluation that considers person's physical and mental health, plus their social and economical environment in combination with Psychological testing. El proceso de evaluaci\u00f3n normalmente toma las primeras dos sesiones, dependiendo de cuantas personas sean entrevistadas y de qu\u00e9 tipo de evaluaci\u00f3n se utilice.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-a-counselor-diagnose-someone-with-a-disorder", "topics": "Diagnosis,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Does my daughter have a mental disability? My daughter is in later elementary school. She can't color in the lines. Her words jumble together when she writes unless there are big spaces or she skips lines.\nTherapist: Depending on your daughter\u2019s age, this could be a learning disability. I suggest contacting the school counselor and asking for an evaluation, once she is evaluated and depending on the diagnosis, she could be provided with treatment recommendations like occupational therapy, reading glasses, or assistance in class. Te sugiero que contactes al consejero escolar y solicites una evaluaci\u00f3n, dependiendo de la diagnosis, ellos pueden recomendar tratamientos como: terapia ocupacional, lentes para leer o asistencia en clase. Estos acomodos son provistos bajo la acta 504.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/does-my-daughter-have-a-mental-disability", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Why won't my boyfriend have sex with me? nan\nTherapist: If you are saying that he will not have sex with you, but the rest of your relationship is as you would like it to be, perhaps you can have a discussion about it. There could be a difference in preferences. Perhaps you could give each other feedback regarding what you like and what you don't like. If there are other concerns in your relationship, such as possibly needing to communicate better or trust each other more, these concerns could be showing up related to your question about sex.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-won-t-my-boyfriend-have-sex-with-me", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I cope with depression? In the last ten months, I've been kicked out, moved around three times, worked many jobs, stopped school to make money, had dad and mom get sick, was cheated on while pregnant, lost my baby, had relationship issues, and was betrayed. I can't get a job. I have no friends. I feel lonely and isolated. I've been dealing with all this by myself.\nTherapist: One thing that may help is to focus on small things that you do have control over. For example, you say you can't get a job, but I wonder if you could work with and local agencies to help you find a job, like Career Link. Are there any previous friends that you can get back in contact with?You mentioned that you have no friends. Is there anyone in your life that you can talk with, even if it's not someone that you consider a closest friend?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-cope-with-depression-2", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I know if my daughter has bipolar disorder? My daughter basically freaked out out of nowhere over me saying \u201ccalm down\u201d when she dropped her phone. Within seconds, the situation escalated to her kicking me out on the curb, saying horrifically unspeakable things, and her calling the cops on me. She seems unable to stop herself at times.\nTherapist: Bipolar disorder has a lot of different components. If this is a one-time event, it could be that your daughter had an intense moment of anger and the phrase of asking her to \"calm down\" may have made her feel as though you weren't understanding what she was saying. Bipolar disorder also includes feelings of depression. When this is coupled with intense anger and acting or speaking without thinking, these can be part of bipolar disorder, but that wouldn't be the whole picture of what bipolar disorder would look like. Patterns are very helpful in figuring out what is happening.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-know-if-my-daughter-has-bipolar-disorder", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Is it weird or dangerous to give myself advice through an imaginary friend? I'm a teenager, and I created a sort of imaginary friend to help me cope with stressful situations or if I'm worried or upset. She \"gives me advice\" and comforts me and tells me it'll be okay. I do this because I know I never really listen to my own advice, and I thought it would be better if it was through someone else who knew my thought process in and out, through this imaginary friend. Could it develop into a separate personality with time if I continue a mentality that she is her own person?\nTherapist: Since you are saying that you know that the thoughts are yours and your thinking of them in a different person's voice to make them easier for you to follow through on, it doesn't sound like it could develop into another personality. It may be helpful to also find other things that give you comfort and to practice telling yourself that it will be okay in your own voice. If you're following following through with your own advice, it sounds like some part of you knows that you are making choices that you agree with. Focusing on these things may also be comforting to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-weird-or-dangerous-to-give-myself-advice-through-an-imaginary-friend", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How do I fix or leave a bad relationship? My ex-boyfriend and I have been back and forth for over a year now. He's in his late 20s, divorced for like five years now with two kids. He has a lot of narcissistic behaviors. He lies and cheats, but I love him. I've tried to date other people, but I always go back to him.\nTherapist: There are a lot of pieces to the decision of whether to stay or leave. Can you have open conversations about your concerns? I'm not sure how you know for sure that he lies and cheats, but does he recognize these things as problems? Which part of you is bigger: the part of you that wants to stay or the part of you that wants to leave? Can you consider what you want, wish for, and desire while also considering the same for him?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-fix-or-leave-a-bad-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I pick which parents house I want to live at? My mom and dad got divorced four years ago. I had to finish out the school year with my dad, and now they are deciding which place is best for me. I can't choose. How can I choose if I love both places?\nTherapist: I don't know how old you are, but depending on that, you may be able to talk with them about spending some time in both places. Even parents who live in different states can do that sometimes. It's not as frequent as spending one week at one house and the next week and the other, but I know that it happens. If you can talk with both of your parents about how you would like to live in both places, maybe you can all work out some kind of agreement.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-pick-which-parents-house-i-want-to-live-at", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I be happier and healthier? I've tried working out and eating fruits and vegetables, but I always seem to eat the junk in the house.\nTherapist: I know some people do better when they don't have as much junk food in the house. Having said that, maybe you can reward yourself with different things, such as having dessert on certain days. If you are concerned about mostly eating habits, consider seeing a nutritionist. They can help you find the balance between what it is that you really want and your goals. I'm not sure how this links to happiness for you, but hopefully looking at your choices can lead you toward your goal of being healthier.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-happier-and-healthier", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less angry? I get really mad easily at my parents and family.\nTherapist: If you are angry and you can talk about your feelings, that would be very helpful. Anger usually comes along with something else, like feeling sad, worried, overwhelmed, confused, and many others. Consider looking at what you notice in addition to anger and you may have a different starting point. If you get along well with friends and don't get angry with them, look at the differences. Do you feel criticized by your parents or family? It almost always connects to something else as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-angry", "topics": "Family Conflict,Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: Does my daughter have a mental disability? My daughter is in later elementary school. She can't color in the lines. Her words jumble together when she writes unless there are big spaces or she skips lines.\nTherapist: It's hard to tell from the information that you were able to provide here, but talk with her elementary school a guidance counselor. Someone working with the school (usually a school psychologist) should be able to evaluate her to see if she needs extra help and to tell you more clearly what may be happening.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/does-my-daughter-have-a-mental-disability", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do I pick between two guys? I'm dating a guy I really love. We have our problems, but I could see myself with him long term. But there's this other guy who I've had feelings for for awhile now. He gives me butterflies when we talk, and my heart beats fast when I see he's texted me, which i never felt with my current boyfriend.\nTherapist: You said that you've never felt this sort of feeling of your heart beating faster with your current boyfriend. Depending on how long you've been together and if you're looking at different ways of making a life together and getting to know each other on a deeper level, that's a different stage in a relationship and sometimes it feels different. Some people look at it as a difference between levels of passion and compassion, but there are many different terms to try to talk about it. Maybe you can leave notes for each other during the day or have a small surprise at random intervals (maybe an invitation to a picnic, for example).As for the other guy who makes your heart beat faster, what do you see in him?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-pick-between-two-guys", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible that I have depression? I'm starting to think that I might have depression. The thing is though, I'm not exactly sad. I can joke with my friends and stuff, but I've stopped caring about my work, and I've been starting to think that life is pointless. I really have no clue if I need help, or if I'm just tired or something.\nTherapist: It is possible that you have depression, but you could also be experiencing some other changes that mean that you have feelings of being sad without actually being depressed. It almost sounds like you are dissatisfied with your work. When you said that life is pointless, what makes it that way? Is there something you can do each day that you can find meaning in?You mentioned that you are not sure if you need help or are just tired. I'm curious about how long you have felt this way and if you are aware of anything that is contributing to it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-that-i-have-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about instant and major mood swings? nan\nTherapist: Mood swings can be related to many different things. I don't know whether you're talking about changes between feeling angry and depressed or any number of other things. Sometimes major and sudden mood swings can be related to chemicals in our body that are changing rapidly. Try keeping track of your mood swings on a daily basis for a week or so. It would also be helpful to note how well you sleep during the same timeframe. Also be aware of anything you know of that is contributing to your changes in mood.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-instant-and-major-mood-swings", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Why can't I laugh anymore? I used to be the funny guy of the group\u2014the class clown, if you will. I used to laugh uncontrollably all the time and be able to be social without it feeling awkward. Now I can't laugh at all, and I'm dead inside.\nTherapist: If you look back to when you feel as though you were the \"funny guy,\" I wonder what is different now? It may be that responsibilities have changed or any number of other things. Sometimes even if we are spending time with friends, we're thinking about work and all of the other things we need to do. Maybe if that is more comfortable for you, it can be a stepping stone to focusing on how you feel better in those moments. If so, try going back to people you trust.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-laugh-anymore", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why am I so sad? I have friends, family, I live in a good home, I go to a nice high school, and I get pretty good grades, but I don\u2019t know why I'm so unhappy. These friends are my best friends and they\u2019re all amazing people, and yet I'm sad all the time and feel alone.\nTherapist: I wonder if you have moments where you feel happy?You say you have amazing friends. I wonder if you get along with them and feel as though you can be yourself around them. Sometimes we put a lot of pressure on ourselves to do really well at everything all the time and this can be overwhelming sometimes. I hope you can tell someone that you are feeling sad so that you can talk about your feelings. Sleeping can make a big difference as far as feeling sad as well. If you're not sleeping well at night, that could be a big part of feeling sad a lot.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-so-sad", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle my fianc\u00e9e always telling me how bad of a job I'm doing in making them happy? My fianc\u00e9e is always letting me know how I am a horrible/evil person, or I just don\u2019t care enough when it\u2019s about her feeling or when she is having an off day.\nTherapist: One thing you could try is to have a conversation when neither of you is upset so that you learn what makes each of you feel cared for and valued. It could be that you are showing caring in a way that doesn't quite match what she is really looking for in that moment. For example, having an in-depth conversation could be something that you want, but she may just want a hug in that moment. I don't know if you heard of Gary Chapman's book about love languages, but it may be helpful.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-my-fianc-e-always-telling-me-how-bad-of-a-job-i-m-doing-in-making-them-happy", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can you get back to my old self? I no longer carry expressions on my face, and my emotions are decreasing the more I have fights with my fianc\u00e9e.\nTherapist: Sometimes when we fight a lot with our partner, it becomes more uncomfortable to share emotions because it feels like it will lead to another flight or disagreement. You could try having a conversation when you're not fighting and starting it out by saying that you would like to discuss something important to you and see if your fianc\u00e9e is open to that. Something else is that you could have an agreement that if one of you is having a really strong emotions in a difficult conversation and would like to break from the conversation, you could agree (ahead of time) that you'll say that you would like a \"timeout\" and will come back to discuss the issue in a certain amount of time (usually about an hour) and then try to resume the discussion.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-you-get-back-to-my-old-self", "topics": "Depression,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I resist the urge to cut? I stopped for a while, but I\u2019ve started doing it again. It\u2019s like an addiction. The more I try to stop, the more I want to do it. I\u2019ve tried doing some of the stuff they say to do like draw, but it doesn\u2019t work.\nTherapist: I've heard people say that they cut themselves as a way to feel relief from different emotions. You're also right that when you try to focus on just not cutting, it becomes more difficult because it's what you are focused on. While that is still something to work on, it may also be helpful to find something else you can do instead. Sometimes more physical activities, such as doing a few jumping jacks, can be helpful. If you don't exercise, it might be something to talk with your doctor about first.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-resist-the-urge-to-cut-2", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I resist the urge to cut? When I'm sad and alone, I want to cut myself.\nTherapist: If you haven't exercised before, it is a good idea to get your doctor's approval first, but this can be helpful. The more you can find out about when you want to cut, the easier it will be to figure out what else you can do. I would see if you can find someone that you can trust to talk with about what you are going through. This could be a parent, a friend, someone at school, a coworker, or any number of other people.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-resist-the-urge-to-cut", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to hate my mom? She has chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, and I\u2019m her caregiver. All she does is complain, hit me, call me names, and say things happened that didn\u2019t. When I tell her, she explodes. I didn\u2019t always hate her, but now every little thing she does irritates me, and I don\u2019t have the means to live on my own.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are hating some of the things that your mom does rather than hating her. Something you may be able to do is call the area agency on aging for the county where you live and ask for information about having other people help to care for your mom. I don't know how old your mom is, but if she is younger, they would probably have resources to other ways that you could have help. If you are both open to the possibility of someone else helping out, this may help with some of the difficulties between you if you are not spending quite as much time together.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-hate-my-mom", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Why do I always think my girl is cheating on me? She works with a man and always looks at guys that check her out.\nTherapist: I wonder if you are having some of these thoughts related to something that has neither happened directly to you in your past or to someone that you care about. This can often change the way that we look at different situations. Try to look at what feelings, for you when you notice that someone is \"checking her out,\" and perhaps when you have felt these feelings before. If you trust your girl enough to have an open conversation, perhaps you could ask her whether she is willing to talk about something that is important to you. Then you could talk about feelings that you're having.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-always-think-my-girl-is-cheating-on-me", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why do I get a weird feeling every few months or so? I get an uncontrollable swallowing that is repetitive and then somewhat out of body feeling that lasts no more than a minute or two. It usually happens in bed at night, but I occasionally experience this during the day. I have a benign brain tumor, but the doctor said it is not associated with this.\nTherapist: I'm not entirely sure whether this relates to something in the mental health realm or if there is something else happening. I know you said that your doctor said it is not related to your physical condition, but have you tried speaking with your primary care physician? As far as the out of body experience, there are different stages of sleep, so if this is happening in the middle of the night and you are waking up from a dream, you may not be fully awake when it's going on. These are just some thoughts, but I think talking to your primary care physician would be a great place to start.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-get-a-weird-feeling-every-few-months-or-so", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: Can hypnosis allow me to recall trauma from 35 years ago? I know I was molested as a child, but I have no memory of it.\nTherapist: I'm not sure that I have the answer to your question, but I can tell you that it would be helpful to talk with a certified hypnotist. There are a list of them here:\u00a0http://www.natboard.com/index_files/Page548.htm. You also may want to talk to someone who specializes in EMDR. This stands for Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing and it is a specific trauma treatment. I am not trained in this particular method, but my understanding is that it does not require a lot of knowledge of the origin of the trauma before being started.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-hypnosis-allow-me-to-recall-trauma-from-35-years-ago", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: What should I do when my parents won't let me see a therapist? I think i may suffer from depression, and it is affecting my life and sleep. I am on my parent's insurance, and they won't let me see a therapist because they don't believe in it.\nTherapist: The answer here really depends upon your age and something called the \"age of consent\" in the state where you live. In Pennsylvania, anyone over the age of 14 can provide consent for their own treatment. As for billing purposes, try talking to some local agencies. If you are under 18, you may be able to have Medicaid out of medical necessity so that you can have treatment. Maybe your primary care physician will be able to refer you to some local agencies. If you are in school, you may be able to talk with a guidance counselor or someone at the school. This would not require using your insurance.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-when-my-parents-won-t-let-me-see-a-therapist", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I get past the hurt of being told by various significant others that I wasn't good enough to have a baby with? nan\nTherapist: I'm not really sure what \"not good enough\" means. If multiple people have told you that, one thing to consider is that they each had their own reasons for not wanting a child at that moment. It is possible that it had nothing to do with you. Did any of these significant others say anything about what made them feel that way? I hope that you were able to talk about these ideas rather than them telling you what they thought and then not further discussing it. What qualities do you want to see in the partner that you want to have a baby with? What attributes do you have to give back to that relationship?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-past-the-hurt-of-being-told-by-various-significant-others-that-i-wasn-t-good-enough-to-have-a-baby-with", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How do I overcome my depression? I feel depressed even though I act like a happy with my family. I act like I\u2019m happy so my son doesn\u2019t see me sad. I act like my life is a happy life, but I feel sad and depressed. I sometimes think of killing myself and that my family deserve someone better than me. I just cry and write in my book all these feelings.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have several different things happening at the same time. I would encourage you to call and speak to a local therapist. While I follow that you would like your son to be unaware of what you are going through, that doesn't mean that you can't discuss your feelings with someone else. This could be from as long ago as necessary as long as it is specific and you can place yourself back in that time when you are thinking about it. Have you recognized any patterns for what is leading you to be sad?Can you think of anything that makes you feel good, even if it only works for a few minutes?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-overcome-my-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why am I so protective of my friends and family? Any time my family and friends are in an altercation, I\u2019m the one who steps in. I\u2019m the one they call to fight for them. I do this even though I have a tough time trusting the people I\u2019m fighting for. I\u2019m only in my early 20s.\nTherapist: You could be protective because of things that happened in your past or in the past of the people that you are protecting. A lot of us have natural instincts that we do not want other people to be in pain. For other people, conflict is just hard to watch and/or listen to. As for having a tough time trusting them, that could also relate to past events between you and these other people or it could relate to the conflict that you mentioned. It can be difficult to trust someone deeply when you don't know when the next big fight or argument is going to start.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-so-protective-of-my-friends-and-family", "topics": "Social Relationships,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I move past my depression from being separated from the military? Two years ago, I was separated from the military into my contract for medical issues. It has emotionally destroyed me. I now basically hate myself. It's embarrassing to be separated from the one place who takes anyone. My family has been in the armed forces, and it has always been my dream. I can't do this alone anymore, and now my family is even worried.\nTherapist: It sounds like being separated from the armed forces is a major loss for you. It takes some time to work through the emotions related to this and it often takes longer if you are trying to work through it without a lot of support. Is there a task that you were doing during your military service that can in some way transfer into civilian life? You may be able to use some of the things that you still have today as a way to start moving forward in a different direction. Your military service will always be a part of you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-move-past-my-depression-from-being-separated-from-the-military", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I kick my stepdaughter out of our house because she isn't honoring boundaries set for her? She's in her early 20s, and she has a toddler.\nTherapist: It may be helpful to first have a discussion about what you are expecting and put a timeframe on it that if she is not doing certain things by a certain date, she will have to leave. If you don't know where she can go, there is probably a list of shelters for the county that you live in.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-kick-my-stepdaughter-out-of-our-house-because-she-isn-t-honoring-boundaries-set-for-her", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: What should I do about not being sexually attracted to my girlfriend of five years? Nothing we've tried has worked so far.\nTherapist: Sexual attraction is often discussed on a continuum. If you are saying that you are not attracted to your girlfriend, you could try changing what you do during sexual intimacy. You could also try slowly using nonsexual touch and discussing what you each like and would prefer to do more of compared to what is not as desirable. After doing this for nonsexual touching, it can also be used with sexual touching. Looking at more of what you like or would like to feel may be of help.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-about-not-being-sexually-attracted-to-my-girlfriend-of-five-years", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I just be happy and not mad all the time? Everything just makes me upset.\nTherapist: Anger often comes with a lot of other emotions. Consider what else you may be feeling at the same time and keep track of your different mood changes. You may be able to notice patterns, such as being more frustrated when you don't sleep well. If you do feel as though you are mad all the time, can you think of any exceptions so you can see what is different in those times?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-just-be-happy-and-not-mad-all-the-time", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: How can I make girls love me and not just the attention I give them? Ever since I was little, I loved the idea of loving someone and spending my whole life with them. I treated everyone nice. For girls I liked, I would spend every second with them. It always ends the same way: \u201cI like you as a friend,\u201d or \u201cI love your attention but not you.\u201d\nTherapist: Attention is often something that is both wanted and sometimes not wanted all the time. Maybe when you're in a relationship with someone you can discuss the amount of attention that you are both comfortable with and/or what you are both looking for as far as amount of connection.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-girls-love-me-and-not-just-the-attention-i-give-them", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with my husband being mean to me? My father is in the hospital and was diagnosed with leukemia. I have been dealing with that all day. My husband keeps getting mad at me for things that I said.\nTherapist: I don't know how long you have been married, but this might be a time to explain to your husband what you wish he could do for you in this moment. It could be that he is showing that he is getting mad at you because he is worried about you and it is just coming out wrong. Maybe he would be open to an honest discussion?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-my-husband-being-mean-to-me", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is my relationship with my stepdad normal? My stepdad and I always mess around. I've noticed that whenever he playfully hits me, it's always my butt that he hits. He always comments on my outfits and always scans me head to toe when I walk into a room. I'm a teenager female, and I want to know if this is normal.\nTherapist: It's hard to tell from the way you described it. Do you think he would be open to an honest discussion? It could be that his comments about your outfit are designed to make you feel good or to help them show how much he cares about you as his stepdaughter. As far as scanning you from head to toe, I can think of reasons that parents might do that. I also think that talking about it is probably very important so you really know what his intentions are.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-my-relationship-with-my-stepdad-normal", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Why does my granddaughter instantly switch moods? She was diagnosed a type one diabetic two years ago and had a very tough time dealing with it.  She has an attachment issue also; her mother just moved to a much nicer home, and she gets angry and demands to go back to her prior home. We do not understand what is going on, and it is driving us crazy.\nTherapist: It could be that she misses friends, that she felt safe in the other house (emotionally safe and comfortable), or dozens of other things. Will she talk about it when she's not mad? You mentioned that she has an attachment issue. It could also be that she was attached to the house. It's not the same as being attached to a person, but possessions and safe places certainly mean a lot.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-does-my-granddaughter-instantly-switch-moods", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Why do I think about how easy it would be to hurt cute animals? Sometimes, when I look at my pet cat, I think about how innocent he is and how somebody could hurt or kill him. It makes me sad because I love him, but I always think about how helpless he is. There've even been split-seconds where I felt almost tempted to kick him, followed by shame and guilt.\nTherapist: A lot of different things could be happening here. Do you feel angry or sad or anxious when you think about how helpless he is? If you have not actually kicked him, then I would encourage you to look at feelings other than guilt, since you did not hurt him. What else is there?It would probably be very helpful to talk with a therapist about the specifics of this so that you can see what else is happening for you. It could be that you feel safe with your cat, so strong emotions come up because you feel safe.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-think-about-how-easy-it-would-be-to-hurt-cute-animals", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How do I balance school and life? I don't have time to live or take care of myself at times. It's causing depression, stress, and anxiety. I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: I'm not sure whether you are referring to having a lot of activities after school or that homework is overwhelming. Can you set aside a couple hours a week for yourself as a place to start?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-balance-school-and-life", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with my trauma? I was a victim of an incident. I've been made fun of and have been beating myself up for it because I don't feel anyone honestly believes me. There are so many other factors I deal with on a daily basis. I ignore my problems when I'm with my friends, but it\u2019s scary when I\u2019m alone.\nTherapist: I'm glad you have some time when you're not thinking about your trauma when you're with your friends. As far as feeling scared when you are alone, I'm not sure if you are referring to having flashbacks or thoughts on what happened to you or reminders in the environment around you or something else. One thing that might help is to find a bead or a rock that is smooth that you can hold onto or rub against your hand or fingers. Think of a time when you felt safe, comfortable, happy \u2013 basically a positive and safe moment \u2013 while holding onto the rock. Try to associate as many happy and safe moments with the rock as you can.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-my-trauma", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I make my mom love me the same as my siblings? I have three siblings. My mom loves them and not me. She\u2019s always yelling at me, but when it comes to my siblings, she talks to them. I\u2019m always crying in my room.\nTherapist: Have you ever tried talking with her about this when she's not angry? While I hear you saying that it feels like she doesn't love you, there could be a lot of other pieces to this. Have you ever told her about how much she means to you (when she's not angry)?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-my-mom-love-me-the-same-as-my-siblings", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I be happy as a stay-at-home mom? Over the years, I have slowly lost everything: my jobs, my cars, my freedom, and my money. I am a stay-at-home mom who doesn't make any money, doesn't have a car, never goes out, and cleans all day long everyday.\nTherapist: There are an infinite number of possibilities here. Is there anyway that you can have some freedom for a few hours a week, at least? A lot of times stay at home moms have groups when they meet at different public places where their children can play together and they can talk together. I don't know how old your child or children is/are, but perhaps going back to work is something that can happen in the future. I wonder if you may consider who you have in your life who can support you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-happy-as-a-stay-at-home-mom", "topics": "Self-esteem,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I talk to my girlfriend about my anxiety from her exes? My girlfriend remains friends with ex boyfriends/lovers on Facebook who actively like and comment on posts. It causes me to get jealous because I'm afraid they might reconnect somehow. I've attempted to talk to her about it, but she avoids it and doesn't seem to worry about how I feel about it.\nTherapist: Talking about it would probably be helpful if you're both in a place where you can decide when is best to talk about something that is important. It might be a good place to start talking about it \u2013 to see what makes her avoid it. It could be that she thinks any discussion about them is going to lead to an argument or you saying that she can't talk to them. I don't know how you typically react when you are jealous, but if you can discuss talking about this in a way that you are both open to hearing what the other person is experiencing, that may be helpful as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-talk-to-my-girlfriend-about-my-anxiety-from-her-exes", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I stop feeling so awful? I'm not the same anymore, I don't know how to get back to who I am. I'm sad and confused and angry and tired. I don't sleep well.\nTherapist: Being tired can really affect almost everyone's ability to work through things that make them sad, confused, or angry, among other emotions. If you're having difficulty sleeping, try to get into a habit of going to bed and waking up close to the same time every day. Also consider only using the bed for sleeping so your brain knows that it's time to sleep when you are in bed. Sometimes sadness and other emotions make sleeping very difficult as well. Try keeping track of your moods to see what is leading up to the changes. There are natural sleep remedies that he or she may recommend for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stop-feeling-so-awful-2", "topics": "Depression,Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: How do I know if I'm transgender? nan\nTherapist: Transgender means that you feel as though the gender that you are is different than the gender that were born with. Just in the effort to be clear, the same idea applies if you are genetically and biologically male and feel as though you're female. This goes beyond people who enjoy dressing in the clothes of the opposite gender, although people who are transgender will sometimes do this as well. Find more information here:\u00a0http://www.transequality.org/about-transgender", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-know-if-i-m-transgender", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my boyfriend insulting my body? I'm in my early 20s, and I've been seeing my boyfriend for a year now. My boyfriend has always been the sweetest guy until recently. He has made comments such as \u201cyou would look better as a Tumblr girl\" or \"you should start doing more squats.\" It's really hurtful.\nTherapist: My first thought was that I wondered what changed recently. Is he open to having a discussion about this so you can ask questions such as that one?It's possible that he does not understand the degree to which it hurts you. Try asking if there is a time that would be good to have a discussion that is important. Then you can listen to his side of the concern.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-boyfriend-insulting-my-body", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my boyfriend's verbal abuse? I try to do everything right just so we won't argue, and it doesn't help the only time he is calm is when he is drinking alcohol. I get anxiety over having fights with him.\nTherapist: Because of the way that you say your boyfriend is only calm when he is drinking and you have concerns about flights, it would probably be most helpful for you to speak with a local therapist so you can have specific conversations about what happens during these fights. When you do \"everything right,\" are you saying that you don't argue? It sounds a bit as though you are trying to read each other's mind without being able to communicate effectively.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-boyfriend-s-verbal-abuse", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my partner's parents not liking me? I\u2019m in my early 20s. My ex\u2019s parents are friends with them and have told them bad things about me. I left my ex due to an abusive situation, and they are making me look like I was the bad one.\nTherapist: Maybe you can talk with your partner about this first look at the different elements of a possible conversation in the future. If you are at a place where you are willing or able to disclose the reason that you left your ex, that could be one element of the discussion, but it doesn't have to be. I don't know how long we have been together with your current partner, but perhaps his or her parents would see you for who you are and make their own opinions over time. That may be a discussion to have with them as well. Hopefully your partner will be a good sounding board before these conversations.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-partner-s-parents-not-liking-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over jealousy? I\u2019m in a relationship with my child's father. I\u2019m a really jealous person. We don\u2019t go out or do anything with other people because of me. To keep our relationship going, I know I have to stop being jealous, but I can\u2019t. How can I get over these issues?\nTherapist: It may be important to look at this as getting through something rather than \"getting over it.\" Also, it may be beneficial to have a conversation with your child's father if you are both open to having a discussion about this in a way that you summarize what each other is saying so you are sure that you are understanding each other, at least to some degree. You cannot make him do anything to support you with this, but you can certainly ask. What is something you could start or stop doing to move you toward your goal?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-jealousy", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop thinking so negatively about myself? I'm depressed and recently went through a break up. It\u2019s like every guy I like only wants me for sex. I think I'm ugly, and sometimes I just want to die. I have a son, and I got really big when I was pregnant. I have stretch marks on my stomach.\nTherapist: If you are currently feeling as if you want to die, please call 800-273-8255 and talk to someone. One way to work on not always thinking so negatively about yourself is to surround yourself with people who are more positive toward you. Sometimes there are creams or lotions you can use to decrease stretch marks and they should be able to guide you in the right direction. You mentioned mostly physical things here. I wonder if you can find one small thing each day that is going right and build from there.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-thinking-so-negatively-about-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My husband only has sex with me once a month or less. I'm feeling rejected and frustrated. This is not new. The first month we were together, sex was about every day. Then it slowed down to once a month right away. I love my husband, but I am struggling with this.\nTherapist: Have you said anything to your husband about the way you're feeling?Start with this. Sex is after all, a two person enterprise. If he would like to talk about the way you're feeling, great and wonderful. The two of you already are continuing to grow trust in your communication and relationship. If he doesn't want to address this question, then you are a little further down the rung of trust and care about you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-only-has-sex-with-me-once-a-month-or-less", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell my parents that I think I have some mental problems? I am pretty sure I have depression and anxiety. I also have voices in my head. I have problems sleeping too. I've already been diagnosed with attention-deficit disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder. I have self-harmed in the last and used to be suicidal. How do I tell them this and ask for therapy?\nTherapist: What stops you now from telling your parents the way you are feeling?Do you imagine asking them for therapy would be a surprise for them?If they're paying attention to you at all, then I imagine they'd feel relief to know you're aware of having some feelings within yourself of a problem. If you believe they'd have a negative reaction to you asking for help, this may very well be part of why you are having problems in the first place. What reaction did your parents have when you were diagnosed with the other conditions?I'd separate their willingness to help you from your sense of needing help.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-my-parents-that-i-think-i-have-some-mental-problems", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: What does it mean that I feel like different genders? I was born a girl. I look like a boy. I sometimes feel like a different variation of gender. I don't know what to say if someone asks my gender. I just get really confused and usually say my birth gender.\nTherapist: It is ok to tell someone who is casually asking about your gender, what is written on your birth certificate. Measure the significance of your answer to the significance of the person who is asking you the question. In addition, you are stating the simple truth, so there's nothing wrong with stating what is on your birth certificate. The whole field of gender identity is extremely popular now. It is a very complicated question and lately people, especially teens, are answering it much more rapidly than seems possible to fully consider.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-does-it-mean-that-i-feel-like-different-genders", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Should I be upset that my husband may have lied to me again? I\u2019m trying to make marriage work after a split. Before our split, he lied a lot and broke every promise to me. I don't think he cheated. Last month, I asked what women work with him, so he told me. Yesterday, I found out about a girl that he said he forgot about. Should I be upset?\nTherapist: Are you upset, is the more pertinent question. Everyone has their own tolerance for lies and their unique reasons for being married. Trust your own answers to the question you ask here. Also, think over the value of your marriage in your life and whether you are able to live with the unstable sense of trust that you have in your husband. Remember too, that if you are the only partner who is trying to make the marriage work, then your job is much harder than if your husband actively participated in making the marriage happier for the couple.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-be-upset-that-my-husband-may-have-lied-to-me-again", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do you overcome an embarrassing mistake and forgive yourself? I am becoming a Water Safety Instructor but I didn't have enough for a proper swimsuit. I was told by a boy in class that my top was displaying everything. I was very embarrassed.\nTherapist: Everybody does something or a few things in their life which looking back, the person wishes they hadn't. The key to feeling better is to realize that as long as you learn something for the future from your mistake, then you will be doing all that any human being is capable of doing. Now that this student in your class pointed out your mistake, you will learn to notice the appearance of your swimwear. The incident would only bother someone who generally is responsible. The mistake is a contrast with what is usual behavior for you. I hope you'll enjoy swimsuit shopping and find a beautiful bargain!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-overcome-an-embarrassing-mistake-and-forgive-yourself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: What should my boyfriend and I do to cope with his cancer? We have been together over a year. We spend time together every day no matter how busy. He started to be unusually fatigued and losing weight. He also began to be distant and sexually selfish. We had a argument, and he confided he has late stage stomach cancer. He wont treat it.\nTherapist: I wonder if both you and your boyfriend could have a conversation about what you both want, wish for, and desire from one another right now. Both of you may discuss different ways that you would like support from one another. I would also see if he was comfortable with you disclosing this to one or a few of your close friends (with him considering doing the same) so that you both have support that includes each other and also includes others because there may be days when you both have a negatively emotional day at the same time and would benefit from talking with someone else.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-my-boyfriend-and-i-do-to-cope-with-his-cancer", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I'm struggeling with the idea of if God real or not? Maybe this is a stupid question, but I sometimes don't know what's real or not. If feel at times like everyone's lying. How do I know if God is one of those lies?\nTherapist: There are many opinions out there for and against God\u2019s existence. But the real question is not if God is real or not, but, do you want to have faith and decide that he exists? Praying and asking for a revelation or a confirmation may help as well, but again it is another act of faith. Pero la verdadera pregunta no es si Dios existe, pero si tu quieres creer que existe.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-struggeling-with-the-idea-of-if-god-real-or-not", "topics": "Spirituality,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My husband only has sex with me once a month or less. I'm feeling rejected and frustrated. This is not new. The first month we were together, sex was about every day. Then it slowed down to once a month right away. I love my husband, but I am struggling with this.\nTherapist: Every area in a relationship, including intimacy, experiences a decline after the initial honeymoon period. Find a moment to talk to your husband about your concerns, and suggest ways to rekindle your sexual life, be open to listen to his concerns and demands as well. Mi esposo solo tiene relaciones conmigo una vez al mes o menos. No olvides que el sexo es una de las partes m\u00e1s divertidas de una relaci\u00f3n, jueguen, coqueteen, bromeen y contin\u00faen buscando maneras de enamorarse otra vez.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-only-has-sex-with-me-once-a-month-or-less", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: What does it mean that I feel like different genders? I was born a girl. I look like a boy. I sometimes feel like a different variation of gender. I don't know what to say if someone asks my gender. I just get really confused and usually say my birth gender.\nTherapist: I agree with Sherry, it is OK to give the answer that you feel most familiar with. Discovering the answer is a process, don't rush it to comply with others either way. A veces siento como una variaci\u00f3n diferente de g\u00e9nero. Estoy de acuerdo con Sherry, est\u00e1 bien dar la respuesta que se sienta m\u00e1s c\u00f3moda.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-does-it-mean-that-i-feel-like-different-genders", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell my parents that I think I have some mental problems? I am pretty sure I have depression and anxiety. I also have voices in my head. I have problems sleeping too. I've already been diagnosed with attention-deficit disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder. I have self-harmed in the last and used to be suicidal. How do I tell them this and ask for therapy?\nTherapist: Family support is very helpful when having these symptoms. I also understand that parents may become overly concerned and overprotective when hearing about your symptoms, and that\u2019s why is important to discuss them with a therapist, normalize them, understand why you experience them, and learn how they could help you. \u00bf C\u00f3mo les digo a mis padres que yo pienso que tengo problemas mentales?Estoy seguro que tengo depresi\u00f3n\u00a0 ansiedad. He observado que aunque algunos padres son esc\u00e9pticos al principio, pero una vez le dan una oportunidad se abren al proceso de terapia y sus beneficios.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-my-parents-that-i-think-i-have-some-mental-problems", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I take care of my depression from a breakup? I have been falling into a deep depression where I can no function during the day and night. The only time I am at peace is when I\u2019m asleep. If I am with friends, family, at work, and mainly alone, I cannot think straight. I no longer feel like myself.\nTherapist: It is common to go through a stage of adjustment after a breakup, which may include depression symptoms. Meditation is a great tool to clear your mind during the day as well; there are multiple apps that help. El \u00fanico memento en el que estoy en calma es cuando duermo. Si el problema persiste tu consejero te puede ayudar a aprender t\u00e9cnicas de enfoque a procesar pensamientos\u00a0 o sentimientos que te est\u00e9n afectando.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-take-care-of-my-depression-from-a-breakup", "topics": "Depression,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: I'm struggeling with the idea of if God real or not? Maybe this is a stupid question, but I sometimes don't know what's real or not. If feel at times like everyone's lying. How do I know if God is one of those lies?\nTherapist: Your question is actually thoughtful and reflects a true interest to know more about life. All the religions exclude the other god concepts, and expect loyalty to believing in their particular version of \"god\". Probably god is real in the sense that most people want to believe there is guided purpose to what goes on in life. This is as definite as what we can know about \"god\". \"God\" is not a lie because it is not a fact.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-struggeling-with-the-idea-of-if-god-real-or-not", "topics": "Spirituality,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm struggeling with the idea of if God real or not? Maybe this is a stupid question, but I sometimes don't know what's real or not. If feel at times like everyone's lying. How do I know if God is one of those lies?\nTherapist: It is not a stupid question, it is very basic. To help answer your question, let me begin with the premise that you will never have absolute proof. With that being said, one can look at different phenomena in nature and history and figure what is the statistical probability that they happened randomly. If one comes to the logical conclusion that many are quite improbable, then there must be a guiding force and plan.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-struggeling-with-the-idea-of-if-god-real-or-not", "topics": "Spirituality,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with my trauma? I was a victim of an incident. I've been made fun of and have been beating myself up for it because I don't feel anyone honestly believes me. There are so many other factors I deal with on a daily basis. I ignore my problems when I'm with my friends, but it\u2019s scary when I\u2019m alone.\nTherapist: As you seemed to have learned, the impact will not just \"go away\". Treatment of trauma is like surgery, it requires a skillful clinician to help resolve it. While you are contemplating getting help, you can focus on calming techniques like meditation and yoga. They will aid you when you begin the therapeutic process.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-my-trauma", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How do I relieve stress and find balance? I'm in my late 20s. I have two jobs right now, I'm in school, and I feel like I just have a lot under my belt right now. I get stressed out really easily. I tend to worry and over-think. I'm just worried about money and everything.\nTherapist: A good start is to pay attention to some basic issues: sleep, nutrition, exercise and socially supportive relationships. A great car on an empty tank will not get you very far.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-relieve-stress-and-find-balance", "topics": "Stress"}, {"text": "User: Should I be upset that my husband may have lied to me again? I\u2019m trying to make marriage work after a split. Before our split, he lied a lot and broke every promise to me. I don't think he cheated. Last month, I asked what women work with him, so he told me. Yesterday, I found out about a girl that he said he forgot about. Should I be upset?\nTherapist: Do you want to be upset about a girl that he forgot about? \u00bfDeber\u00eda este molesta porque mi esposo me minti\u00f3 de nuevo?Estoy tratando de hacer que mi matrimonio funcione despu\u00e9s de una separaci\u00f3n. El mes pasado, le pregunt\u00e9 cuantas mujeres trabajan con \u00e9l, y \u00e9l me dijo.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-be-upset-that-my-husband-may-have-lied-to-me-again", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I'm struggeling with the idea of if God real or not? Maybe this is a stupid question, but I sometimes don't know what's real or not. If feel at times like everyone's lying. How do I know if God is one of those lies?\nTherapist: This is a significant issue for many people and can make us feel helpless; among other emotions due to the uncertainty. You said that, at times, you feel like everyone is lying. Our beliefs about ourselves and the people and our world \u00a0and how we interpret information and experiences have a significant effect on how we feel and how we behave. It is important to objectively challenge the beliefs that contribute to negative emotions. We are unfortunately influenced by what and who we associate with. As it pertains to if God is a lie; be honest with yourself and question your beliefs that tell you that God is or is not real.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-struggeling-with-the-idea-of-if-god-real-or-not", "topics": "Spirituality,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: is it normal not to feel empathy? I can't seem to feel any emotion except anxiety, not even for myself.\nTherapist: I'm interested to hear some more information; such as, if you live by yourself or family, if you go to school/employed/unemployed, and what kind of things do you like to do with friends or by yourself. Often times, when we are experiencing a strong emotion that we interpret as negative, we put most of our focus on that negative emotion and struggle to see that we do not always\u00a0feel that specific emotion. When we overgeneralize, we use words like \"always\" or \"never\" and when we use those words and it may not be totally true, we feel the negative emotion based on an inaccuracy which is not fair to you. What do I notice when I am feeling anxious?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-not-to-feel-empathy", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: I'm struggeling with the idea of if God real or not? Maybe this is a stupid question, but I sometimes don't know what's real or not. If feel at times like everyone's lying. How do I know if God is one of those lies?\nTherapist: There are an infinite number of ways to look at this. Spirituality, religion, God, higher power, and many other parts of this discussion mean different things to different people. Often, the concept of God has to do with what you believe in. You may also consider speaking with a pastor or another religious figure. In my experience, ideas of religion and spirituality can be lead to very deep discussions with some people who are very strongly connected to what they believe. When initiating conversations about this, try first asking whether someone would be comfortable discussing religion or spirituality.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-struggeling-with-the-idea-of-if-god-real-or-not", "topics": "Spirituality,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I tell my dad I'm a female-to-male transgender and I want to start binding? I have known I was always different. This year, in December, I found out that I never felt female. I did research and have identified myself as male but don't know how to tell my dad.\nTherapist: I have a few thoughts and perhaps some colleagues will add some things. This won't tell you for sure if he would be okay with learning you are transgender, but at least you would know if there is hostility toward transgender people. If you want to tell him when you are by yourself with him? Unfortunately, the response from your dad can't be predicted. Some parents are totally cool.... others not so much. This is one reason why having someone with your for support is sometimes a good idea. Be well... be you.. and good luck!Robin J. Landwehr, DBH, LPC, NCC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-tell-my-dad-i-m-a-female-to-male-transgender-and-i-want-to-start-binding", "topics": "Family Conflict,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I'm struggeling with the idea of if God real or not? Maybe this is a stupid question, but I sometimes don't know what's real or not. If feel at times like everyone's lying. How do I know if God is one of those lies?\nTherapist: The way that I see it is that Humans have always been afraid of life and death, historically we have always tried to understand life, we try to organize it, categorize it, explore it, and we've built up this system, our system and societies system around us to help us define what life and (death) is, this system or way is not real but only a perception of our own value judgements, it is, no matter how you try to argue it, a false system of conditioning, humans have a finite mind and a finite mind cannot ever hope to understand an infinite mind of which a god would be. God has been developed over time as a security blanket for our child-like selves, the world is a beautifully brutal place and what is more reassuring than a master that will take care of us and show us the way.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-struggeling-with-the-idea-of-if-god-real-or-not", "topics": "Spirituality,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: is it normal not to feel empathy? I can't seem to feel any emotion except anxiety, not even for myself.\nTherapist: Empathy is the ability to tap into our own experience to help us connect with others in order to be aware of how they are experiencing life. It is a skill that we learn with practice and refine as we become mature. A good idea is to be very aware of your anxiety triggers, and once you identify them explore other ways you could react. Si te est\u00e1s sintiendo ansioso, tal vez puedas comprender mejor como otra persona experimenta momentos de ansiedad.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-not-to-feel-empathy", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My husband only has sex with me once a month or less. I'm feeling rejected and frustrated. This is not new. The first month we were together, sex was about every day. Then it slowed down to once a month right away. I love my husband, but I am struggling with this.\nTherapist: Sometimes starting with asking whether he would be open to having an important discussion can be a good beginning. If that starts well, perhaps continuing with something like \"I've noticed that we haven't been together intimately (or whatever phrasing works for you) as much lately. That word tends to trigger really strong emotional reactions in people. For example, \"what made you choose not to do that?\"", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-only-has-sex-with-me-once-a-month-or-less", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: What does it mean that I feel like different genders? I was born a girl. I look like a boy. I sometimes feel like a different variation of gender. I don't know what to say if someone asks my gender. I just get really confused and usually say my birth gender.\nTherapist: If you're feeling like your gender is different than the gender you are born with, and there are many different terms to help describe that. Gender is actually looked at on a spectrum. I'm not saying that you should use the term transgender to describe yourself because that may not accurately describe what you are experiencing, but I'm just trying to point you to some more resources. There are many different things than you could say and they are all related to how much you already to share with other people about how you feel regarding your gender. Generally, I would suggest it would be important to become comfortable with how you feel yourself and possibly tell some people whom you really trust first.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-does-it-mean-that-i-feel-like-different-genders", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell my parents that I think I have some mental problems? I am pretty sure I have depression and anxiety. I also have voices in my head. I have problems sleeping too. I've already been diagnosed with attention-deficit disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder. I have self-harmed in the last and used to be suicidal. How do I tell them this and ask for therapy?\nTherapist: If you have already been diagnosed with attention-deficit disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder, can you go back to the people who diagnosed you with those things?It may be that your parents would be open to you talking with someone because it sounds like you have done this in the past. As for how you tell them about the fact that you have harmed yourself in the past and used to be suicidal, a therapist may be able to work together with you to discuss the best way to tell them about that. They may be able to connect you with local resources and they can definitely talk with you in the moment that you call.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-my-parents-that-i-think-i-have-some-mental-problems", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Do I have to go to counseling to get hormones to transition from female to male? nan\nTherapist: I know that most people who are transitioning from one gender to another are required to enter into counseling at some point. Transitioning is a long process and there are many steps. I do not know for certain whether you need to be in counseling before receiving hormone therapy, but I do believe that it is a part of the process prior to an actual surgical transition. You may consider a book called the Transgender Guidebook. If you are speaking with a physician about gender transition hormones, they would probably know whether counseling is required at that time or later in the process.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-to-go-to-counseling-to-get-hormones-to-transition-from-female-to-male", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How can I take care of my depression from a breakup? I have been falling into a deep depression where I can no function during the day and night. The only time I am at peace is when I\u2019m asleep. If I am with friends, family, at work, and mainly alone, I cannot think straight. I no longer feel like myself.\nTherapist: I don't know how long ago your breakup was, but I would suggest that you reach out to friends or family that you trust and perhaps a local mental health clinician. Not sleeping can really make changes in your emotions seem much larger. Can you find anything in your life that is the same as it was before the breakup? I wonder if you could think of and moment or two each day when you feel emotionally at peace while you are awake. Also consider looking at things that you can control, such as when you choose to wear, eat, and who you talk to about your deepest feelings. I wonder if any of them are supportive to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-take-care-of-my-depression-from-a-breakup", "topics": "Depression,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: is it normal not to feel empathy? I can't seem to feel any emotion except anxiety, not even for myself.\nTherapist: Empathy usually falls on a spectrum, meaning that some people show more than others. When you say you don't have emotion except anxiety, I wonder if you are saying that you have anxiety all the time and it may be covering up other emotions? This could be any number of activities, such as watching TV, cooking, reading a book, or many other options. If you are feeling as if you are just going through the motions and not having a lot of emotions about anything, if it's just been a few days, it may just be related to a current stress that will lessen in a few days. There may be some variations that you are not aware of.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-not-to-feel-empathy", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I control myself and my anger? I snap easy and push people away. I need help before I push my boyfriend away.\nTherapist: Now that you know that you snap and push people away, you can look into ways to control your anger. If you would like to engage in therapy, I am licensed in Texas and Puerto Rico, you can contact me at 787-466-5478.\u00bfC\u00f3mo puedo controlarme y a mi coraje?Exploto f\u00e1cilmente y alejo a las personas. Necesito ayudo antes de hacer que mi novio se aleje.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-control-myself-and-my-anger", "topics": "Anger Management,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I make the dreams and voices go away? For the past four weeks, I've been having nightmares and hearing voices telling me of horrible things. They're not random voices, but rather, the voices of those I care about.\nTherapist: Write down your nightmares and discuss them with an analyst or psychotherapist who specializes in dreams, as I do. If you are hearing voices while awake, see a doctor right away. If the voices are strictly in your dreams, do call for therapy and talk to your caring others about what's happening.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-the-dreams-and-voices-go-away", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Why am I upset or down every day even when nothing is going on? How can I get to a place where I can be content from day to day?\nTherapist: It's important to take a look inside and see what's going on with you to cause you to have these feelings. Please contact us in whatever way is most comfortable for you and we can get you set up with someone who will help you figure out this space in your life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-upset-or-down-every-day-even-when-nothing-is-going-on", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I make the dreams and voices go away? For the past four weeks, I've been having nightmares and hearing voices telling me of horrible things. They're not random voices, but rather, the voices of those I care about.\nTherapist: It's important to take a look inside and find out why you are experiencing these feelings. It could anything and it will change your life to know what your particular issue or trigger is. Please contact us a call with the method that is most comfortable for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-the-dreams-and-voices-go-away", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my fear of accidental pregnancy to have sex again? I am so terrified of having sex anymore because I have been told over and over that sex is dangerous even though me and my partner used both forms of protection. My partner is not happy about this and simply wants more sex, and honestly, I want to give that to her.\nTherapist: Alot of our choices have to do with what we have been taught and partly our fear of trusting ourselves to do what is right. There is so much more going on within you than you realize. Please contact us when you can and in whatever way you can to discuss what's going on with you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-fear-of-accidental-pregnancy-to-have-sex-again", "topics": "Anxiety,Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My husband wants a divorce after I was diagnosed with severe depression. He said he would try and he never did. It's been nine months, and this is making me worse. Today, he said I have to respect whatever decision he makes. Is that true? Am I supposed to respect the decision to leave because he can't handle what I'm going through and leaves me here crying and worried every night? He's constantly changing his mind on if he wants to work it out.\nTherapist: When you are at your lowest, you have an opportunity to learn not just about the people around you and who you can depend on, but also, so much about yourself and why you have come to the place that you have. Take this time to do some introspection and learn yourself. It will give you the power to recover from whatever it is that has broken you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-wants-a-divorce-after-i-was-diagnosed-with-severe-depression", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why am I with my husband if he is mean? I love him, but he doesn\u2019t show me love. He talks badly about me to his friends.\nTherapist: What you are describing is a state of abandonment like no other; a direct lack of respect. The challenge here is: you cannot control another person no matter how hard you try. So then the question that this reality poses is: What are you willing to change? Your husband also needs to change and that is something only he can do for himself but reaching out to get help as well. It would be helpful for you both to get help because there is damage on both parts.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-with-my-husband-if-he-is-mean", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: My husband wants a divorce after I was diagnosed with severe depression. He said he would try and he never did. It's been nine months, and this is making me worse. Today, he said I have to respect whatever decision he makes. Is that true? Am I supposed to respect the decision to leave because he can't handle what I'm going through and leaves me here crying and worried every night? He's constantly changing his mind on if he wants to work it out.\nTherapist: If your husband is changing his mind about whether or not he wants to stay in the relationship, I wonder if you both might benefit from seeing a therapist who specializes in couples. In my training working with couples, partners come into counseling with one of three goals in mind: strengthening the relationship, getting a divorce, or making a decision. When you ask whether you have to respect whatever decision he makes, respecting his decision does not mean that you have to agree with what he decides. While you do not have the power to change his decision, he also does not have the power to change yours or how you feel about it. I'm not sure whether you are saying that having him there is a source of comfort for you or that it leads you to feel more sad.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-wants-a-divorce-after-i-was-diagnosed-with-severe-depression", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My husband wants a divorce after I was diagnosed with severe depression. He said he would try and he never did. It's been nine months, and this is making me worse. Today, he said I have to respect whatever decision he makes. Is that true? Am I supposed to respect the decision to leave because he can't handle what I'm going through and leaves me here crying and worried every night? He's constantly changing his mind on if he wants to work it out.\nTherapist: Although the marriage vows say in sickness and health, each person has the right to choose to stay or to leave, depending on their ability to cope and handle marriage challenges. I know is hard not to focus on him and his choice, but the more you put the focus of attention on him the least support you will receive. Tambi\u00e9n puedes invitar a tu esposo a terapia para hablar sobre tu diagnosis y que aclare dudas sobre los s\u00edntomas y expectativas.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-wants-a-divorce-after-i-was-diagnosed-with-severe-depression", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I make the dreams and voices go away? For the past four weeks, I've been having nightmares and hearing voices telling me of horrible things. They're not random voices, but rather, the voices of those I care about.\nTherapist: Are you in the middle of extreme emotional pressure right now?Or, is someone with whom you're close, under stress or somehow suffering?Dreams and nightmares are when our feelings and pressures we feel, try working themselves out without logic and language. Even though the nightmares are horrible, they are one way your psyche is trying to come to terms w extraordinary difficulty in your life or someone's life whom you feel greatly attached.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-the-dreams-and-voices-go-away", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my fear of accidental pregnancy to have sex again? I am so terrified of having sex anymore because I have been told over and over that sex is dangerous even though me and my partner used both forms of protection. My partner is not happy about this and simply wants more sex, and honestly, I want to give that to her.\nTherapist: Maybe you'll feel less fear by understanding that whoever told you sex was dangerous, was wrong. If this message came from your upbringing, then it may a deeply embedded belief. Since the belief itself instructs to avoid risk, and overturning this belief requires taking the risk to believe the logic that reasonable safe sex measures are adequate protection, give yourself time to absorb this new understanding. Talk w your partner about your psychological difficulty bc their patience will help you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-fear-of-accidental-pregnancy-to-have-sex-again", "topics": "Anxiety,Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I make the dreams and voices go away? For the past four weeks, I've been having nightmares and hearing voices telling me of horrible things. They're not random voices, but rather, the voices of those I care about.\nTherapist: Voices and dreams could be suppressed feelings or thoughts that result from negative experiences. It is helpful to find a therapist to talk to about those dreams and voices, once you get them out, you could analyze the concerns and fears that they reflect and normalize them, which will also be a good time to discuss their source, if any traumatic event has occurred in your life. Adem\u00e1s te sugiero que escribas tus sue\u00f1os, especialmente si te mantienen despierto\u00a0 en la noche, y que medites luego de escribirlos para que puedas volver a dormir.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-the-dreams-and-voices-go-away", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How do you overcome an embarrassing mistake and forgive yourself? I am becoming a Water Safety Instructor but I didn't have enough for a proper swimsuit. I was told by a boy in class that my top was displaying everything. I was very embarrassed.\nTherapist: First I think we have to acknowledge that you are doing something amazing. You are putting yourself out there and becoming a Water Safety Instructor. We often times will focus on the negative and forget about the positive. Next, you had an incident where someone pointed something out which may have caused embarrassment. Whether or not it was malicious on his part I think the important thing to focus on is what is called \"Common Humanity\". Common Humanity is one of the three elements of self-compassion. Rather, be kind to yourself for learning an amazing new talent.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-overcome-an-embarrassing-mistake-and-forgive-yourself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my fear of accidental pregnancy to have sex again? I am so terrified of having sex anymore because I have been told over and over that sex is dangerous even though me and my partner used both forms of protection. My partner is not happy about this and simply wants more sex, and honestly, I want to give that to her.\nTherapist: I am wondering who is telling you that sex is dangerous. A therapist can help you to process those negative thoughts and feelings that may impair you from enjoying your sexual life. Me pregunto qui\u00e9n te est\u00e1 diciendo que el sexo es peligroso. Me parece que estas enfocado en hacer feliz a tu pareja, y te est\u00e1s protegiendo y protegi\u00e9ndola, pero tal vez est\u00e1n olvidando analizar que tu quieres realmente.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-fear-of-accidental-pregnancy-to-have-sex-again", "topics": "Anxiety,Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My husband wants a divorce after I was diagnosed with severe depression. He said he would try and he never did. It's been nine months, and this is making me worse. Today, he said I have to respect whatever decision he makes. Is that true? Am I supposed to respect the decision to leave because he can't handle what I'm going through and leaves me here crying and worried every night? He's constantly changing his mind on if he wants to work it out.\nTherapist: The fact that you mention that he is \"constantly changing his mind on if he wants to work it out,\" suggests that Discernment Counseling might be a really good fit for you both. It's a brief (1-5 sessions) and intentionally focused on helping partners talk through (primarily individually) their reasons for and against staying in the relationship - as well as confront their own contributions that lead to the relationship crisis. You can look to find a local therapist providing this service here. You may need to accept his decision, but you can certainly feel whatever emotions you have.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-wants-a-divorce-after-i-was-diagnosed-with-severe-depression", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression"}, {"text": "User: I keep on changing my life when things get tough. I've been like this ever since I was in school; back then I transferred to another school. Now I'm thinking about changing my job.\nTherapist: There's a quote I love that says, \"Wherever you go, there you are\" and the book by the same name by Jon Kabat-Zinn may be very helpful for you. The thing about changing things up when they get tough is that they often aren't the things that need changing. The awesome (and challenging) thing about it is that when you work on the internal aspects that may need attention, you can learn to find a sense of centeredness that comes with practicing mindfulness and asking yourself who you really are and want to be. If you look for support in this journey from a counselor or therapist, I'd recommend looking for someone offering Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) or Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (MCBT).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-keep-on-changing-my-life-when-things-get-tough", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: I keep on changing my life when things get tough. I've been like this ever since I was in school; back then I transferred to another school. Now I'm thinking about changing my job.\nTherapist: It may be helpful to talk to someone who you trust to get a sense of whether the changes that you are making are those that are considered adaptable or important changes that allow us all to grow. Another possibility is that you are changing things in an effort to get away from something that is uncomfortable or difficult. There are many other possibilities along this continuum. Are the concerns that you have now going to travel with you?If you are hesitating to get another perspective (from trusted friends or family or some sort of career advisor in your area), where is the hesitation coming from?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-keep-on-changing-my-life-when-things-get-tough", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: How can I make the dreams and voices go away? For the past four weeks, I've been having nightmares and hearing voices telling me of horrible things. They're not random voices, but rather, the voices of those I care about.\nTherapist: I would recommend that you talk with a mental health professional near you about the details so you can have some really specific support for what you are going through. I don't know if you can understand when the voices are saying, but I wonder how you feel about what you are hearing? If the voices are just at night, is it possible that they are part of a nightmare or a dream? If you recall your nightmares, consider writing them down so that you can remember their content and work with a mental health professional to look for patterns. These ideas may help in the meantime prior to having more specific ideas from someone near you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-the-dreams-and-voices-go-away", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my fear of accidental pregnancy to have sex again? I am so terrified of having sex anymore because I have been told over and over that sex is dangerous even though me and my partner used both forms of protection. My partner is not happy about this and simply wants more sex, and honestly, I want to give that to her.\nTherapist: I would suggest possibly talking with a physician about all the different types of protection. They may be able to help you to know about all of the options that are available. It sounds like your partner is open to understanding your concerns. Perhaps until you have the chance to speak with someone about the effectiveness of different contraception and forms of protection, are either of you open to other forms of engaging in sexual intimacy (without penetration, but with use of vibrators, toys designed for sexual interactions, etc.)?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-fear-of-accidental-pregnancy-to-have-sex-again", "topics": "Anxiety,Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Should I get a divorce? I have cheated on my husband of five years roughly ten times. I pretend we aren't married at my work. Recently, he has caught on, but I lie to cover it. He use to talk to girls online, but I have caught myself constantly having a affair.\nTherapist: It may be helpful to have this emotionally impactful conversation in the context of couples therapy. Whether or not you should get a divorce is not the first question that comes to mind for me, but more along the lines of do you want to be together and what kind of relationship do you want to create?For some people, polyamorous relationships (those involving more than two people) are acceptable. If it is something that you are both open to, it is often beneficial to have more than one discussion about the details of what is acceptable for each of you. That does not mean you cannot talk about what each of your goals are together and support each other in working toward those goals you have for yourselves.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-get-a-divorce-3", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why am I upset or down every day even when nothing is going on? How can I get to a place where I can be content from day to day?\nTherapist: One thing that comes to mind is making a list of some things that happen each day. It could be that there are things that are affecting how upset you are, but because so many other things are going on, you may not notice. For example, rather than eating a turkey sandwich as fast as possible on your lunch break, consider actually tasting it and enjoying it. For example, when you finish your paperwork, take a moment to notice that and maybe reward yourself by checking your e-mail, reading five pages of a book, or something else that can be done quickly before you get back to your next task.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-upset-or-down-every-day-even-when-nothing-is-going-on", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: What are the best ways to reduce anxiety? I have anxieties about everyday stressors, i.e. finances, work, relationships, kids, and maintaining a household.\nTherapist: Something to remember about anxiety is that it's a useful and necessary response to stressors, and we all have a level of anxiety that falls somewhere on the spectrum from very slight to very overwhelming. Another suggestion is to pay closer attention in the moments you feel the physical symptoms of anxiety and see if you can describe - without judging - the sensations to yourself. Combining the calm breathing with this technique can also be very helpful. If you feel that these techniques don't help and your anxiety about everyday stressors are inhibiting you from being able to engage in life the way you want to, then I'd highly recommend going for an assessment or even just consultation with a professional.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-are-the-best-ways-to-reduce-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Stress"}, {"text": "User: If I am trying to stop self-harming and I seek help, will I need to be put in an inpatient setting? I have bipolar disorder, paranoid personality disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder, anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorder. I last self-harmed a week ago. When I am stressed, overwhelmed, hurt, or angry, the urge to self-harm is all I can think of. I am trying to seek help.\nTherapist: Seeking professional help does not mean that you will necessarily be admitted into an inpatient setting - though \u00a0to be honest, that can become an option if you feel unsafe or if you are unable to plan for safety. Looking for a DBT professional or group therapy setting may be particularly helpful, but a\u00a0skilled professional can help you to figure out how to identify other options even when you are experiencing overwhelming emotions. The volunteers on the other end of the line can be very helpful even if your intention is not suicide and they are likely also to be able to connect you with resources in your area. Calling into the helpline may also be a first step alternative to self-harming when you're feeling overwhelmed.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/if-i-am-trying-to-stop-self-harming-and-i-seek-help-will-i-need-to-be-put-in-an-inpatient-setting", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: I keep on changing my life when things get tough. I've been like this ever since I was in school; back then I transferred to another school. Now I'm thinking about changing my job.\nTherapist: Many times when things become difficult to manage, is because we are getting out of our comfort zone, so we seek growth and change. If so, it is OK to know when to remove ourselves form situations that harm us more than helping us. If you would like to engage in counseling, I am licensed in Texas and Puerto Rico, you can contact me at 787-466-5478. Si es as\u00ed, \u00bfc\u00f3mo puedes aprender esa destreza y quien te puede ayudar?Ayudo a mis clientes a identificar sus fortalezas y \u00e1reas de crecimiento, el actualizar y pulir tu resume junto con explorar opciones de empleo, te puede llevar a descubrir nuevos talentos en ti.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-keep-on-changing-my-life-when-things-get-tough", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I always need to be in a relationship? I have suffered many things at home and school. We never went to the doctor to diagnose depression or anything like that, but I always feel like a part of my heart is missing. I try to fill it in with objects or, in this case, a woman.\nTherapist: It sounds as if there is a part of you that is looking for support. I wonder what it is that you feel when you're not in a relationship?Because of the way you asked the question, I'm getting the impression that you are referring to romantic relationships. I wonder if you have close friendships that could form a network to help with this when you are not romantically involved with someone. Even when you are in a relationship with a romantic partner, having friends is still an important element. with someone else who we trust and care about \u2013 also hoping they care about us in return.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-always-need-to-be-in-a-relationship", "topics": "Relationships,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over my heartbreak? A year ago, the love of my life left me and never looked back. Our son was two months old at the time and it broke my heart. I miss her so much and can't seem to get over  being so heartbroken.\nTherapist: I recognize that you say you are missing being with the love of your life. At the same time, I don't understand whether you are able to see your son. When you say that she \"never looked back,\" I imagine you are conveying that getting back together is not something that she is interested in. I would suggest that you talk with a therapist and your local area so that you have the ability to discuss the loss of this person who you love so much. Most people think of grief related to the loss of someone who has died, But it also applies to people who have a significant loss, whether that is a relationship, a job, or any number of other things.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-my-heartbreak", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Do I have anxiety? I stress over everything. If I don't have enough \"quality time\" with my boyfriend, I start to feel resentment towards him. He has three children, and they are great kids, but I find we don't have much time together. I break down easily and find myself depressed.\nTherapist: Everyone has some level of anxiety - it's what helps us respond to stressors in our lives and clues us into the fact that we need to respond to something going on. Your other concerns, though, seem pretty \"normal\" for someone who is in a relationship with a partner who has children. As a married stepmother, I've been there, and as a therapist, I can tell you that the boundaries and communication skills you have in your relationships need to be healthy for you to feel healthy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression,Stress,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with separation anxiety while boyfriend is out of town? I have been with my boyfriend for more than a year. He recently got a new job and travels a lot. I\u2019m not used to him being gone all the time. I feel as though he has forgotten about me because he does not talk with me as much and doesn\u2019t keep me up to date on everything that he does throughout the day, which he used to. I don\u2019t know why he is acting this way lately.\nTherapist: Relationships at any amount of distance can be so hard! It makes sense that you are encountering more anxiety than usual given that major change in your relationship. Have you talked with your boyfriend about this struggle you're feeling? There's so much good information in this app to help you learn to pay attention to what kinds of thoughts are helpful or unhelpful, and there are also lots of activities for calming down and decreasing the intensity of that anxiety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-separation-anxiety-while-boyfriend-is-out-of-town", "topics": "Anxiety,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Should I get a divorce? I have cheated on my husband of five years roughly ten times. I pretend we aren't married at my work. Recently, he has caught on, but I lie to cover it. He use to talk to girls online, but I have caught myself constantly having a affair.\nTherapist: Clearly you seem interested in\u00a0being other people, and you are also concerned about your husband being unfaithful online. And I have so many questions for you: What are you looking for outside of your marriage? Do you want to open the lines of communication with your husband, so you could analyze the situation together?I suggest attending couple\u2019s therapy or even couple\u2019s mediation to assess and discuss where you want to go whit your relationship. \u00bfEst\u00e1s dispuesta a dejar lo que encuentras fuera del matrimonio, si tu esposo no puede d\u00e1rtelo?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-get-a-divorce-3", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I'm soon to be married, and I've been messing around with others. I\u2019m a man, and I\u2019m soon to be married. I have been messing around with other men on the side. It started as a once in a while thing, but it\u2019s been happening a lot. I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: When faced with these kinds of difficult challenges, I usually encourage people to look to their values for help in determining what their behavior should be. What\u00a0kind of character\u00a0do I want to have when in public and in my private world when nobody is watching? This is not an unusual struggle when it comes to sexual behavior and sexual orientation. For example, someone with the value of living authentically may decide they have to tell others who they are and what they stand for, even if that means people may disapprove. Above all, I wish you well in this journey.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-soon-to-be-married-and-i-ve-been-messing-around-with-others", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: My toddler wants her daddy to die when she's mad at him. I told her that if daddy dies, we will never see him again. She started crying because I wouldn't make her daddy die.\nTherapist: Children often have a difficult time expressing emotions accurately. Having said that, she is using some very specific ideas here and I would recommend contacting a local mental health professional with some experience working with children. Sometimes children hear things on TV or from an adult and we are not even aware of how much they are remembering. It may be helpful to teach her things that she can do when she is angry, like say that she is mad because she cannot have the toy that she is asking for. Does she say the same sorts of things about you?It may also be helpful for you to work with a mental health professional (possibly the same one who is working with your daughter) so that you can have some support with this as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-toddler-wants-her-daddy-to-die-when-she-s-mad-at-him", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do I shake self-doubt about sex? I get very nervous and anxious/scared before sex.\nTherapist: I first wonder what your anxiety or fear connects to. All of this can be part of your discussions. When you feel comfortable with that, you could move into sexual touch in this manner and actually look at what you do and do not like. You may also consider discussing things that are totally off-limits for you all the time and things for which you would like warning or awareness before they happen. If the concern relates more to self-esteem related sex, consider asking your partner to list several things that he or she likes about you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-shake-self-doubt-about-sex", "topics": "Anxiety,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: My husband makes me uncomfortable about sex. Both of my parents committed suicide together, and I was the one who found them. I suffer from overwhelming depression, which is having an extreme effect on me and my husband\u2019s sex lives. He does not understand at all and is always making me feel so uncomfortable about sex.\nTherapist: First, I want to tell you how sorry I am for the experience you had with your parents. That is a grief and trauma that is certainly hard to imagine. Trauma and grief can affect us in many ways, and certainly deeply personal things like our sex lives. A counselor can help you with your communication and may be able to provide some education to your husband about trauma and how it can have an impact on intimacy. If he doesn't agree to go, it may be worth it to go on your own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-makes-me-uncomfortable-about-sex", "topics": "Trauma,Depression,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I always need to be in a relationship? I have suffered many things at home and school. We never went to the doctor to diagnose depression or anything like that, but I always feel like a part of my heart is missing. I try to fill it in with objects or, in this case, a woman.\nTherapist: There could be many reasons but often people feel validated when they are in a relationship, the need to be in a relationship can be related to a belief of unlovability which often stems from our childhood. The relationship sort of soothes this temporarily and the others interest or desire helps counteract the ingrained belief. Many people describe having a hole or void they try and fill with material things or people but it only is a temporary fix which usually drives the person to the next relationship, or object in hopes it will be fulfilling but it never is because fulfillment is work we need to do ourselves. This journey involves finding acceptance and love for ourselves.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-always-need-to-be-in-a-relationship", "topics": "Relationships,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I talk to my psychologist about upping my dose of Xanax? I\u2019ve been on 0.5 mg of Xanax twice a day for the past month. It hasn't been helping me at all, but when I take 1 mg during a big anxiety attack, it calms me down. Should I stay on the 0.5mg and deal with the attacks or should I ask to up the dose? I'm afraid she will take me off them and put me on something else.\nTherapist: While counselors work closely with medical providers, and sometimes have discussions about medications with people, we rarely make recommendations about how much or what type\u00a0of medication\u00a0a person should be taking. Having said that, I certainly understand that anxiety is a real serious problem that many folks struggle with. Exposure therapy has\u00a0good outcomes for people with anxiety disorders and panic attacks. If you are interested in speaking with your provider about the Xanax, I think explaining it the way you did on here is just fine. The provider will then decide if they feel comfortable increasing your medication. The more you take, the more you may feel you need.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-talk-to-my-psychologist-about-upping-my-dose-of-xanax", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Do I have some type of anxiety? Sometimes, I'm fine and can go out or meet people, but other days, my heart races and words physically cannot come out of my mouth. I've always thought it was normal and I was just nervous, but the other day, it took me almost 30 minutes of sitting in my car to find the courage to enter Target by myself.\nTherapist: It is possible that you could have or be developing an anxiety disorder. There isn't really enough information provided here to suggest a particular disorder, but it might be worth meeting with a counselor or therapist to do a formal assessment. It might be that for the most part, the anxiety you feel is normal and you simply have some triggers that intensify it more than usual. This two-fold approach can be really helpful for not letting anxiety keep you from engaging in life the way you'd like.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-some-type-of-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I find out the cause of my depression and anxiety? I have been feeling more and more down for over a month. I have started having trouble sleeping due to panic attacks, but they are almost never triggered by something that I know of.\nTherapist: It could be really helpful to see a counselor/therapist about your increasing depression/panic symptoms. Obviously, this is a very simplified example and it can be very difficult to see how the pattern is maintained, but that's where working with a counselor/therapist comes in. I would be curious about whether you can start to notice the initial sensations of panic, and if you can (through the panic attack) continue to maintain awareness of the actual physical sensations.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-out-the-cause-of-my-depression-and-anxiety", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety,Sleep Improvement"}, {"text": "User: My daughter won't stop stealing and lying. Her father and I have been dealing with this problem for quite some time now. She is an adolescent, and the problem is mostly food. She is now overweight, and we just don't know what to do anymore. She can be disrespectful and doesn't listen to or respect what we say.\nTherapist: I would be curious about there potentially being some emotional or physical trauma in your daughter's history that she is struggling with. Physical trauma is usually easier to identify, but emotional trauma can be feeling a lack of emotional connection in her important relationships, having experienced bullying, or some other emotional injury. The fact that there are some defiance symptoms going on suggests that she might be in need of a safe place to process what she's going through, and the potential issue with control or meeting emotional needs with food is also concerning. They may be able to ask the right questions to see whether trauma is truly the issue.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-daughter-won-t-stop-stealing-and-lying", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I'm a mess physically, mentally, emotionally, and spiritually. I need deeper help than is offered in my small town, but I cannot leave this town because of agoraphobia. My brain barely works anymore, and my memory so small, I forget in a moment. I'm incapable of work or anything of value, and I never have been. I\u2019m a complete waste of time and resources, and yet I keep trying.\nTherapist: The fact that you're reaching out says that there is something in you that wants this to be different, and that drive might be something worth tapping into. \" is a question that might give you some insight into what it is in you that keeps you going. A lot of therapists/counselors are now offering video therapy. As long as you're in the same state as a therapist offering this service, you could connect with someone helpful from the comfort of your home, even being in your small town.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-a-mess-physically-mentally-emotionally-and-spiritually", "topics": "Self-esteem,Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with separation anxiety while boyfriend is out of town? I have been with my boyfriend for more than a year. He recently got a new job and travels a lot. I\u2019m not used to him being gone all the time. I feel as though he has forgotten about me because he does not talk with me as much and doesn\u2019t keep me up to date on everything that he does throughout the day, which he used to. I don\u2019t know why he is acting this way lately.\nTherapist: Consider talking with your boyfriend about times that you may be able to talk together while he is away. How do you feel when you are together with him and he is home?I'm also curious as to how the level of your anxiety (on a scale of 1 to 10, perhaps) changes during the parts of his trips. Maybe there are certain parts that are more or less related to anxiety for you. Do you know what leads to your anxiety when he is away? Perhaps he would prefer a good morning text or call/voicemail from you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-separation-anxiety-while-boyfriend-is-out-of-town", "topics": "Anxiety,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Do I have some type of anxiety? Sometimes, I'm fine and can go out or meet people, but other days, my heart races and words physically cannot come out of my mouth. I've always thought it was normal and I was just nervous, but the other day, it took me almost 30 minutes of sitting in my car to find the courage to enter Target by myself.\nTherapist: First, be aware that each end every one of us has anxiety at some point. Anyone who has a hard time with public speaking or feels uncomfortable in large crowds, for example, is experiencing anxiety. It sounds like it would be helpful to look at the differences between the days when you are more comfortable on the days that you are not. If you have an idea of times or situations in which you feel anxious, consider carrying a small smooth rock or another object that makes you feel calm and centered.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-some-type-of-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I talk to my psychologist about upping my dose of Xanax? I\u2019ve been on 0.5 mg of Xanax twice a day for the past month. It hasn't been helping me at all, but when I take 1 mg during a big anxiety attack, it calms me down. Should I stay on the 0.5mg and deal with the attacks or should I ask to up the dose? I'm afraid she will take me off them and put me on something else.\nTherapist: You mentioned that you are afraid that your medical provider will take you off of the Xanax and put you on something else. Also, sometimes there are medications that you can take in addition to Xanax. In addition to talking with your medical provider about changing the medication, try to track your levels of anxiety on a scale of 1 to 10 throughout the day so you can get a pattern of what is happening. This may help your medical provider know what medication may be helpful to you or what changes could be made. There are also many other anxiety medications.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-talk-to-my-psychologist-about-upping-my-dose-of-xanax", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I'm soon to be married, and I've been messing around with others. I\u2019m a man, and I\u2019m soon to be married. I have been messing around with other men on the side. It started as a once in a while thing, but it\u2019s been happening a lot. I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: If you are happy with the person that you are about to be married to and are also enjoying time with other men, it could be possible that you are attracted to people of more than one gender. I don't know whether your use of the phrase \"messing around\" was related specifically to being romantically or sexually involved with the people who you are or referring to or if you are saying that you are enjoying spending time with them. These terms have different definitions for almost everyone.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-soon-to-be-married-and-i-ve-been-messing-around-with-others", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Why does my husband like dressing as a female in our bedroom? He wants to wear makeup and heels. He even tucks his penis away to resemble a vagina. He wants me to wear a strap on and have anal sex with him. I have tried this for him, but I don\u2019t like it and have told him so. He keeps making comments about it and says he can't live without it.\nTherapist: It sounds like you may be asking two different questions. If you choose to do that, I would suggest that you ask him whether a certain time is a good time to have a conversation and asking questions for five minutes or more that are related to you learning more about his experience. This can be difficult to do at times, particularly when you may want to offer your own opinions or become very anxious or of type. Consider thinking of a phrase that may help you to stay calm during the discussion. Having structured conversations, such as the ones I've described briefly above, can feel awkward initially, but the reason it can be helpful is because it can lead to further understanding in a way that decreases the chances of having an argument.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-does-my-husband-like-dressing-as-a-female-in-our-bedroom", "topics": "Marriage,Human Sexuality,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Do I have some type of anxiety? Sometimes, I'm fine and can go out or meet people, but other days, my heart races and words physically cannot come out of my mouth. I've always thought it was normal and I was just nervous, but the other day, it took me almost 30 minutes of sitting in my car to find the courage to enter Target by myself.\nTherapist: Your, sitting in your car for 30 minutes, story sounds so sad and frustrating. Yes, you're describing classic symptoms of anxiety. Anxiety itself is the indirect result of repeatedly being in positions of feeling helpless or frightened. Are you able to recall from your growing up years of feeling insecure?You may not have felt loved and nurtured as much as you needed. Some people develop anxiety from missing enough love. They feel lacking in ability to take care of themselves, similar to the lack of being sufficiently taken care of when younger. If \"yes\", then start the slow process of emotionally rewarding and acknowledging yourself. This will gradually result in decreased anxiety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-some-type-of-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I tell my dad I'm a female-to-male transgender and I want to start binding? I have known I was always different. This year, in December, I found out that I never felt female. I did research and have identified myself as male but don't know how to tell my dad.\nTherapist: If you are concerned about telling your dad regarding your gender identity, I would suggest a couple of things. As far as telling your dad, if that is particularly concerning for you, I suggest either talking through the details with a local therapist or considering if you have a trusted friend or family member (one who will respect your privacy with regard to who you would like to know about what you are experiencing at this time) so that you can talk with some people to have support. This may help with two things: allowing you to find some support for yourself as you work through the changes that you are going through now and also possibly talking with someone who knows your dad and may be able to talk with you regarding how or when to tell him. Also, please remember that you know yourself best, as each of us does.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-tell-my-dad-i-m-a-female-to-male-transgender-and-i-want-to-start-binding", "topics": "Family Conflict,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How do I know what my sexual orientation is? I'm a girl, and I can't tell whether I'm bisexual or gay. I like girls a little more than boys, but I don't really know.\nTherapist: Sexual orientation is not always something that is clearly definable. A lot of people don't know for quite some time. In addition to that, after people do know who they are attracted to, a lot of times they do not use the terms \"gay\" or \"bisexual\" for quite a while. Some examples may include trust, respect, availability for conversation or connection, etc. Whatever it is that you find important in a relationship is likely what matters most.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-know-what-my-sexual-orientation-is", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I went to my ex-boyfriend to reach out to one of his high school friends who's attempted to commit suicide. When I went to him to reach out to his high school friend, he told me that I put him in a terrible position and put an enormous load on his shoulders. He was very angry that I went to him to do that. Am I in the wrong for going to him to reach out? He made me feel awful for thinking highly of him to help.\nTherapist: I'm glad you think so highly of your boyfriend and his ability to be there when you would like to talk about things that are important to you. I also wonder about how close he was with his friend and what he thought you meant when you asked him to reach out. It sounds as if he is thinking that doing so would mean that he is responsible for his friend's well-being, although I can't say that for certain. During this time, try to listen and ask questions is if you are an investigative reporter and are trying to learn more about his experience. This does not mean that you have to agree with what you say, but just that you follow. I'm suggesting that just during this conversation, you ask questions to focus on what he is thinking and feeling.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-is-my-ex-boyfriend-upset-with-me", "topics": "Social Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I talk to my psychologist about upping my dose of Xanax? I\u2019ve been on 0.5 mg of Xanax twice a day for the past month. It hasn't been helping me at all, but when I take 1 mg during a big anxiety attack, it calms me down. Should I stay on the 0.5mg and deal with the attacks or should I ask to up the dose? I'm afraid she will take me off them and put me on something else.\nTherapist: Staying on the lower dose may give you more room to learn strategies for coping with your anxiety. Medications are so helpful, and needed at times, but it's also important to have a variety\u00a0of tools you use to manage your responses to stress. If you are not already seeing a therapist, consider finding one who can help you learn some effective strategies, like replacing self-defeating thoughts with ones that work better for you, or mindfulness, relaxation, or other tools to keep your anxiety in the manageable range!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-talk-to-my-psychologist-about-upping-my-dose-of-xanax", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: What's the best way to handle my spouse's narcissism and bipolar disorder? He is always telling me our fights are only and all my fault, he bashes me to our young child, and he is addicted to a few substances.\nTherapist: The behaviors you describe are boundary violations. You can not change your spouse, but you can respond to his behaviors in ways that protect your boundaries and ensure your safety. Finding a therapist who understands the dynamics of abusive relationships may be helpful. If you are not ready to do this, I recommend the book \"Boundaries\" by Dr. Henry Cloud and Dr. John Townsend. It's a great resource for helping one recognize boundary violations and learning how to respond to them in ways that are constructive!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-s-the-best-way-to-handle-my-spouse-s-narcissism-and-bipolar-disorder", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy,Addiction,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I talk to my psychologist about upping my dose of Xanax? I\u2019ve been on 0.5 mg of Xanax twice a day for the past month. It hasn't been helping me at all, but when I take 1 mg during a big anxiety attack, it calms me down. Should I stay on the 0.5mg and deal with the attacks or should I ask to up the dose? I'm afraid she will take me off them and put me on something else.\nTherapist: Do you think you're abusing xanax?It is a highly addictive drug so maybe one reason you feel compelled to take more is bc you already are addicted. Drugs don't do anything helpful in solving life's problems. Once the effect wears off, the stressful situation is once again waiting for you to address it. Think over your reason for not directly asking your psychologist about upping your dose. The more gradual path to a better life is to not need drugs in the first place. This consists of your willingness to face the matters that are creating such terrible feelings inside you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-talk-to-my-psychologist-about-upping-my-dose-of-xanax", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my depression and anxiety after trying so many things? I have terrible anxiety and depression. I've tried various therapists and pills, but nothing's helped.\nTherapist: Is it possible you simply didn't mix well with the particular therapists with whom you've worked? If this is possible, interview a therapist before \u00a0starting therapy. Then you will be choosing a therapist who feels compatible with your way of seeing yourself and your life. Read about the different healing modalities and see if one of these speaks to your interest in feeling better. What matters most is finding among all the legitimate healing methods, what you believe will be effective.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-depression-and-anxiety-after-trying-so-many-things", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I convince my mother I have anxiety and panic attacks? I've been dealing with this for years. My mom thinks I'm overly emotional and refuses to offer any help, like therapy or seeing a doctor. She's seen me when I'm having a panic attack and just said I was faking for attention or that I'm a hypochondriac. I just want to get better.\nTherapist: How old are you?Are you old enough in your State to have therapy without your mother's consent?Your mom's attitude toward you may be one significant reason on why you feels so much tension in the first place. Don't let her opinions and beliefs get in the way of what you know about yourself. Are you in school and does that school have a guidance counselor?Would you talk with that person about your difficult getting your mom to retain helping services for you?Keep looking for local resources which will support you either directly or indirectly by advocating for your right to receive mental health care.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-convince-my-mother-i-have-anxiety-and-panic-attacks", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Why do some people try to make a joke for everything and laugh at everything? These \"jokes\" are made about everything. They seem to have the need to say something \"funny\" about everything. It's not funny, just awkward.\nTherapist: I agree, it is awkward when people make jokes about subjects which may not be funny at all. And, if a person only jokes, then after laughing and realizing the person has nothing of themselves to offer, this can also be quite tedious. Realize that you are more aware of human interaction having many levels of expression. You could start avoiding people who irritate you by the way they behave.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-some-people-try-to-make-a-joke-for-everything-and-laugh-at-everything", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I will never have a good career/amount to anything financially? I'm in my early 20s. I've worked since two months after I turned 18. I have \u201cplans.\u201d I could become an electrician, or I could operate heavy machinery. I have goals, but I do nothing to try to meet them because I don't feel I can. I just want a better life for my fianc\u00e9e and the kids than I did.\nTherapist: For starters, commend yourself for being committed to working. Remind yourself of that every time the thought pops up. The false belief that nothing good will happen is sucking out energy you can use on pursuing your career dreams. As you accomplish each step, see your progress. When you start to feel discouraged, remember your goal and remind yourself that you have no idea if you'll make it or not but you are going to give it everything you have to find out. Anything worth pursuing is going to take a lot of persistence and hard work.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-will-never-have-a-good-career-amount-to-anything-financially", "topics": "Depression,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: What should I do about my husband's emotional affair with his ex-wife? My husband had an emotional affair with his ex-wife in November. She invited him to dinner, alone, with their daughter. I wasn\u2019t aware of this until after 11pm when I asked where he was. He went out that night with friends and said his ex-wife wasn't going. I found out that he stayed that second night with her. I asked if they slept in the same bed, and he said yes, both nights. He claims they didn't have sex, but what else should I think?\nTherapist: My answer is going to be super simplistic but I believe this may be what you need. Ask your husband if he wants to stay married to you. If he says yes, then it would be helpful to go to a marriage counselor and work this out with a professional. If he says no, then you can file for divorce.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-about-my-husband-s-emotional-affair-with-his-ex-wife", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: A friend of my child's father is sending him inappropriate content. I believe it is wrong for men to look at inappropriate content. The father of my child has agreed to respect my beliefs. His co-worker sent him an inappropriate video. He got mad because he does not think he should tell his friend to not send him things like that.\nTherapist: Although you do not like inappropriate content, it is not up to you what your child's father looks at or what his friend sends him. It is really hard not to monitor other people's lives, but in the end, your rights begin and end with you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/a-friend-of-my-child-s-father-is-sending-him-inappropriate-content", "topics": "Relationships,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm soon to be married, and I've been messing around with others. I\u2019m a man, and I\u2019m soon to be married. I have been messing around with other men on the side. It started as a once in a while thing, but it\u2019s been happening a lot. I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: Divorce is expensive emotionally and financially. If your fiance is not ok with an open marriage, it would be a good idea to seek the help of a counselor before you get married.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-soon-to-be-married-and-i-ve-been-messing-around-with-others", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: My toddler wants her daddy to die when she's mad at him. I told her that if daddy dies, we will never see him again. She started crying because I wouldn't make her daddy die.\nTherapist: It's normal for a child to be so angry she wanted someone to die, but this seems to be heading into a dangerous realm. I think it would be wise to have her seen by a child psychologist just to rule out anything more serious.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-toddler-wants-her-daddy-to-die-when-she-s-mad-at-him", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Do I have some type of anxiety? Sometimes, I'm fine and can go out or meet people, but other days, my heart races and words physically cannot come out of my mouth. I've always thought it was normal and I was just nervous, but the other day, it took me almost 30 minutes of sitting in my car to find the courage to enter Target by myself.\nTherapist: Though I don't know for sure, it sounds like anxiety to me. I think it would be helpful if you work with a therapist who specializes in anxiety disorders.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-some-type-of-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my depression and anxiety after trying so many things? I have terrible anxiety and depression. I've tried various therapists and pills, but nothing's helped.\nTherapist: I'm sorry that you have tried several different things and not had much relief. I would encourage you to continue trying different therapists. I would say to give each one at least six sessions before you decide that the approach that they are using is not working for you. Also, most places have a certain sort of structured initial session that must be done, but after that, the decisions are largely up to what you and the clinician feel is helping. If something is or is not working, communicate this with your therapist. Mindfulness is sometimes helpful as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-depression-and-anxiety-after-trying-so-many-things", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I convince my mother I have anxiety and panic attacks? I've been dealing with this for years. My mom thinks I'm overly emotional and refuses to offer any help, like therapy or seeing a doctor. She's seen me when I'm having a panic attack and just said I was faking for attention or that I'm a hypochondriac. I just want to get better.\nTherapist: I don't know how old you are, but in Pennsylvania, if you are over 14, you can have therapy without your parents' consent. If you are young enough to use their insurance, that could be complicated, but depending on the state, there may be ways to work around that as well. If transportation is a problem, call a local mental health agency and see if they can connect you with assistance. They may be able to help you figure out where you can get help. Remember that they usually and after a few minutes.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-convince-my-mother-i-have-anxiety-and-panic-attacks", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Do I have some type of anxiety? Sometimes, I'm fine and can go out or meet people, but other days, my heart races and words physically cannot come out of my mouth. I've always thought it was normal and I was just nervous, but the other day, it took me almost 30 minutes of sitting in my car to find the courage to enter Target by myself.\nTherapist: These types of symptoms can be very disruptive to life! Anxiety often presents in two key ways: \u00a01) physical symptoms such as: racing heart rate, sweaty palms, dry mouth, shaking or trembling or nausea - often these physical sypmtoms are categorized as a Panic Attack. 2) mentally anxiety presents itself as worry. Worry that spirals out of control, worry that dirsupts your life and concentration. Anxiety when it begins to spiral out of control either with disruptive mental or physical symptoms, needs to be addressed formally.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-some-type-of-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My ex-boyfriend say we're finished but still acts like we aren't. I've been with a man for four years. For the last year, he has said he is done, but he still talks, texts, visits, and has not moved on with anyone else. His words do not match his actions. I love this man, but it's hurting so much.\nTherapist: If you think your boyfriend would be open to having a discussion, try asking him for a time when he is willing to have an important discussion. He may also be trying to figure out what he is feeling. If you end up talking over one another, try letting one person be the one who is talking about their feelings for about five minutes and during that time, try having the other person asked questions to gain more understanding of their experience. Questions that start with the words how, what, when, who are usually better than questions starting with \"why\" because they can be emotional triggers for some people.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-ex-boyfriend-say-we-re-finished-but-still-acts-like-we-aren-t", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What is a psychotic seizure? My doctor seems to think I am in danger of having one. I neglected to ask how this was different than an episode. I have been formally diagnosed with bipolar type 1.\nTherapist: I will admit that I'm not specifically familiar with this from my own experience. If it is the other way around, I'm not sure how that would work. I would suggest you talk to your physician about this directly so that if they are worried about this, you can learn more about what is making them concerned about it and what, if anything, you could do to lessen the likelihood of it or how to handle it if it does happen.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-a-psychotic-seizure", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: My ex-boyfriend say we're finished but still acts like we aren't. I've been with a man for four years. For the last year, he has said he is done, but he still talks, texts, visits, and has not moved on with anyone else. His words do not match his actions. I love this man, but it's hurting so much.\nTherapist: Have you brought up the topic as to the way you're feeling?The best way for someone to understand us or to understand someone, is to directly talk about \u00a0the specific problem. To start the discussion w your partner, understand your own reasons for continuing the relationship. Given his stated disinterest in the relationship, your mood is probably affected by this. Once you are clear on how the range of your feelings, especially any fears on being alone, suggesting you may be staying w this guy simply to avoid such fears, then you'll be ready w your self-knowledge, to start a conversation w your partner about your relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-ex-boyfriend-say-we-re-finished-but-still-acts-like-we-aren-t", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I know if I am obsessed or in love with someone? We had great chemistry, but then he became distant. I had the feeling that I can't be without him. As soon as I felt the difference, I was scared to lose him. I started freaking out if he did not answer, thinking that something bad happened.\nTherapist: The simplest answer is that love feels good, obsessions don't. Love deepens a sense of peacefulness and security. Obsessions give anxiety and worry of feeling abandoned. One suggestion is to study more about yourself and why you'd feel so ill at ease when you aren't w this person.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-know-if-i-am-obsessed-or-in-love-with-someone", "topics": "Relationships,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How do I know if I am obsessed or in love with someone? We had great chemistry, but then he became distant. I had the feeling that I can't be without him. As soon as I felt the difference, I was scared to lose him. I started freaking out if he did not answer, thinking that something bad happened.\nTherapist: People often care deeply for those whom they love. It is also common to want to be very closely connected to people who are important to you. Sometimes just talking about these feelings can be helpful so that you can both have open discussions about whether the amount or type of communication is too much or in a style that is not working for both of you. I also wonder where you are getting the idea that something bad happened. Also think about what styles of communication you both like and what is and is not okay in the context of an argument.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-know-if-i-am-obsessed-or-in-love-with-someone", "topics": "Relationships,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less stressed out? I shake and have panic attacks.\nTherapist: One of the first things I would suggest is to see if you can keep track of what is leading you to feel anxious. You may have heard of the fight or flight response. When you have an anxiety attack, your body is preparing you to react to something that isn't actually a threat, so it's almost as if you're fight or flight response is overactive. Here is an image that may be helpful:\u00a0http://psychology.tools/fight-or-flight-response.htmlThere are many different things you can do. Using techniques to slow your breathing or become focused on the room around you is probably most helpful when you first start to feel anxious.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-stressed-out", "topics": "Stress,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I find myself again? I just don't know what I want in life anymore. I'm can't figure out what it is that is keeping me distracted and unfocused. I can't put things into perspective at all. I'm just stuck, and I'm disappointed with my lack of accomplishments.\nTherapist: It sounds as if you would benefit from talking with a local mental health professionals so you can discuss some details. Having said that, I wonder if you could consider how you would define yourself to someone who doesn't know you. There is a list of negative ones here too. Sometimes it's easier to consider what others see as our positive points and if this is difficult for you, try asking someone who you trust to help you with the list. I'm also curious as to whether you are eating and sleeping okay, as these things can really affect your focus and many other changes, such as differences in your emotions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-find-myself-again", "topics": "Self-esteem,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I don't belong anywhere? There are many people willing to lovingly provide me with a home. I have food, clothes, and a university education, but I never feel like I belong. Even when I have a good time with people who are supposed to be close, I feel like I'm just out with friends and I never go home.\nTherapist: For some people, having a sense of belonging takes some time. I have also wondering if you have been emotionally hurt in the past, and if so, you may have some protective defenses that you use (maybe on purpose, maybe not) to protect yourself from being hurt again. Remember that this idea comes in degrees where you can be more perfect in certain situations and a little less in others. I also wonder what it is that you want in your \"home,\" and how you define it. If this continues to be difficult for you, consider seeing a local mental health professional so you can discuss some more specific details.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-don-t-belong-anywhere", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I'm nothing more than a wife and mom? I'm in my mid 20s with a husband and children. I love my family, but I feel like I've lost my identity, and I don't know who I am other than a mom and wife. At times, all I can think is what I gave up and how I feel unhappy and trapped, but I know I'd feel like worse without them. I loathe myself at times. I have an amazing life, so why can't I just enjoy it?\nTherapist: It sound like there are some parts of your life that you really enjoy it and also some things that you wish were different. I also wonder if you could list your positive attributes or skills. I don't know what you gave up, but I wonder if there is some way that you could spend an hour or so a week working on things that you like and/or spending some time with what you did before you had children. Of course, that is assuming that you want to continue being involved with what you were doing before. Can you talk with your husband about how you are feeling?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-m-nothing-more-than-a-wife-and-mom", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to take a parent role and feel so hurt and broken as a teenager? I'm a teenager. My dad has been jail for the last five years. It's tough, but my mom really tries to give a normal life to my two sisters, my brother, and I. I feel like I took upon a parent role when I'm the second youngest, and I'm not stable. My mother and sisters say I'm overdramatic. I\u2019m just so hurt, and I keep breaking down.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have a lot of weight on your shoulders. I'm not sure what you mean when you say you're not stable and you are breaking down. If you are crying because you're sad, that is okay. If you are crying a lot or having trouble eating or sleeping, that's different than just crying sometimes because you are sad. It may be helpful to talk with a local mental health professional in your area. They can help you to figure out what you could do differently to have the role in your family that you would like while also supporting yourself and what you want.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-take-a-parent-role-and-feel-so-hurt-and-broken-as-a-teenager", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my boyfriend being so close with another girl? My boyfriend has this close female friend. It always bothered me because of how close they are, so I decided to meet her. That made the situation worse because they were even closer than what I thought. They acted like a couple rather than friends with each other. There was no physical interaction, but he talks to this girl a lot. What can I do? Leaving him isn't an option.\nTherapist: I wonder if you could have a conversation with your boyfriend about how you are feeling. Consider working with a couples therapist to discuss it together.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-boyfriend-being-so-close-with-another-girl", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: What can I do when my boyfriend says he's not ready for marriage? nan\nTherapist: I don't know if you have any details regarding what makes him say he is not ready for marriage. It may also be helpful to look at what is making marriage so important to you right now. I also recommend prefacing that conversation with asking if the person is open to having a discussion that is important at that time. If this proves to be a difficult discussion, consider seeing a therapist who specializes in couples. In the meantime, try to look at what you have that makes you feel valued, special, and loved.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-when-my-boyfriend-says-he-s-not-ready-for-marriage", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why can't my mom ever be proud of me? She constantly tells me what I am doing wrong. For once, I want her to be proud of me. It\u2019s like no matter what I do, she does not have one nice word to say to me. She is always hateful towards me and always has been.\nTherapist: I imagine this is very difficult and confusing for you. It sounds like there are things for which you are proud of yourself, which is really good. If you want to try to talk with you mom to see how she is feeling, maybe she would be willing to discuss it with you. If you're going to tell your mom about how you feel, consider having some points written down ahead of time so you can explain yourself the way that you want to. If your mom does not want to go to see a counselor with you, remember that you could go on your own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-my-mom-ever-be-proud-of-me", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Did I make a mistake breaking up with a guy who said his ex-girlfriend will always be on his mind? He was in love with someone years ago, and he still thinks about her time to time. He said, and I quote, \"That relationship is definitely over. I love you, but that girl will always be in my mind.\" It just didn't feel like he appreciated all the things I've done to make him happy.\nTherapist: It sounds like you were in a tough spot here. I am wondering what led you to ask whether you made a mistake and whether you wish you were still in the relationship with this guy. If so, is it an option to talk about this with him?If you decide to get back together, consider having some conversations about what your concerns are and taking about five minutes or so to listen to this guy's thoughts, feelings, etc. Then maybe you can ask some questions that you have and see if he is willing to listen. When each of you is in the role of asking questions, try to ask them as if you are an investigative reporter trying to learn more about each other's experience.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/did-i-make-a-mistake-breaking-up-with-a-guy-who-said-his-ex-girlfriend-will-always-be-on-his-mind", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with a break up if we still live together? nan\nTherapist: I'm not sure whether you're asking for help to cope with the relationship between you or feelings that you are having. When you are discussing whatever relationship you are going to have now, consider taking the time to listen to how each of you feel and think about different things that are most important to you. Hearing the other person's point of view does not mean that you have to agree, but just the you can see where they're coming from. It is certainly expected that you could have lots of feelings related to sadness, nervousness, anger, and many other things.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-a-break-up-if-we-still-live-together", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Do I have some type of anxiety? Sometimes, I'm fine and can go out or meet people, but other days, my heart races and words physically cannot come out of my mouth. I've always thought it was normal and I was just nervous, but the other day, it took me almost 30 minutes of sitting in my car to find the courage to enter Target by myself.\nTherapist: Yes, it seems like you may have a type of anxiety: but considering that it is intermittent, it may be a good idea to talk to a therapist and explore what triggers the anxiety. Different types of anxiety are caused by different scenarios, memories, or stressors. Si parece que tienes un tipo de ansiedad, y considerando que es intermitente, puede ser \u00fatil hablar con un consejero para explorar su causa.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-some-type-of-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My husband only has sex with me once a month or less. I'm feeling rejected and frustrated. This is not new. The first month we were together, sex was about every day. Then it slowed down to once a month right away. I love my husband, but I am struggling with this.\nTherapist: Feeling rejected and frustrated is a reasonable reaction to your experience with your husband. If your husband was to work with me I'd explore with him his understanding of, and experience with, intimacy in relationship with others. If there are no physical issues, per se, I would encourage your husband to process further his family of origin story-line regarding rules, roles, sex, and sexuality along with working through his sexual and trauma histories.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-only-has-sex-with-me-once-a-month-or-less", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with a lack of intimacy and partner's addiction to solo sex and porn? I believe my partner has a masturbation and porn problem. He masturbates daily, even when I am lying in bed sleeping beside him. We have sex once a week. He is rough and worries about his needs. He never touches me, and treats me like a porn star, wanting to finish on my face or chest.\nTherapist: The comments here from the other therapists are \"spot on\". As a Certified Sex Addiction Therapist-Candidate I'm convinced your partner's acting out creates trauma for you. Your partner's addiction is NOT your fault and his recovery IS his responsibility. What's paramount is for you to get immediate help from an experienced therapist who understands trauma as result of the partner's/spouse's problematic sexual behaviors. Resources for Your Consideration: 1) https://www.iitap.com/, 2)\u00a0https://www.sanon.org/, 3)\u00a0http://www.cosa-recovery.org/", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-a-lack-of-intimacy-and-partner-s-addiction-to-solo-sex-and-porn", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: I'm soon to be married, and I've been messing around with others. I\u2019m a man, and I\u2019m soon to be married. I have been messing around with other men on the side. It started as a once in a while thing, but it\u2019s been happening a lot. I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: It took a lot of courage to share what must be so shameful to you and to ask for help. Regardless of your sexual attraction/orientation, I'd encourage you to get honest with yourself and your partner/fiancee and put a temporary hold on your wedding plans -- getting married will NOT resolve your acting out. It seems to me you need more space, time to sort through with an experienced therapist more of your sex/sexuality story-line and apparent anxiety surrounding the upcoming nuptials. and if you've been sexually intimate with your partner/fiancee s/he needs to be similarly tested.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-soon-to-be-married-and-i-ve-been-messing-around-with-others", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Should my step-daughters be told that their step-father has a child pornography addiction? My husband\u2019s ex-wife married a man who was charged with seven felony counts of pandering involving a minor. He, by his own admission, is addicted to child pornography. The ex-wife minimizes it by saying that he has \"repented.\" It is a constant strain on my husband, knowing that his girls are living with a man who is addicted to child pornography. My own therapist believes the girls should be told. The ex-wife says her therapist says the opposite.\nTherapist: The information from the other therapists here is sound and prudent. There are what sounds to be real legal (is this man a RSO [registered sex offender]; is he prohibited from being in proximity to minors? I would further counsel that you and your husband (his daughters welfare is at stake) seek immediate legal counsel. The ex-wife here seems to be between a \"rock and a hard place\" of her own creation -- she desperately needs care, treatment for herself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-my-step-daughters-be-told-that-their-step-father-has-a-child-pornography-addiction", "topics": "Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: My apartment manager won't let me keep an emotional support dog. I have been diagnosed with general anxiety and depression by my family doctor. They wrote a prescription for me to have an emotional support dog, I have the paper work, and I gave it to my apartment manager. They said I can't keep the ESD because I'm not disabled. What do you suggest I do?\nTherapist: Typically, only animals that are specifically trains to accomplish a specific task are legally protected as Service Animsls. Even though that can be very helpful, emotional support animals are not generally protected in the same way. You might not be able to make your landlord accommodate you. If possible, you may want to consider a different apparent that is more animal friendly.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-apartment-manager-won-t-let-me-keep-an-emotional-support-dog", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: My ex-boyfriend say we're finished but still acts like we aren't. I've been with a man for four years. For the last year, he has said he is done, but he still talks, texts, visits, and has not moved on with anyone else. His words do not match his actions. I love this man, but it's hurting so much.\nTherapist: That does sound very confusing...and hurtful. You do not have to tolerate someone treating you in a way that hurts you. It may be helpful to decide where the boundaries are for you and to stay true to them in your interactions with him. You teach other people how they are allowed to treat you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-ex-boyfriend-say-we-re-finished-but-still-acts-like-we-aren-t", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm soon to be married, and I've been messing around with others. I\u2019m a man, and I\u2019m soon to be married. I have been messing around with other men on the side. It started as a once in a while thing, but it\u2019s been happening a lot. I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: I would start by examining the reasons for seeking out other relationships. Are you getting something from the other men that you do not currently receive from your current partner? Such as,\u00a0is it\u00a0more exciting with others and that excitement is lacking in your current relationship?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-soon-to-be-married-and-i-ve-been-messing-around-with-others", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Do I have some type of anxiety? Sometimes, I'm fine and can go out or meet people, but other days, my heart races and words physically cannot come out of my mouth. I've always thought it was normal and I was just nervous, but the other day, it took me almost 30 minutes of sitting in my car to find the courage to enter Target by myself.\nTherapist: I would suggest keeping a log of those days when you are having a hard time. Items to write would be what were you doing before you felt this way, did you eat and what, what time of day is it, how much sleep did you get that night, etc... This can help you identify any triggers. Further assessment can be made by a health care professional. It does sound like you are experiencing some symptoms of anxiety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-some-type-of-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with a break up if we still live together? nan\nTherapist: This would be very unsettling for most people. Once a relationship is finished, then starting a relationship of only roommates would require to constantly be watchful to keep the relationship businesslike and friendly and avoid acting on any romantic or partner feelings toward the other person. The best situation would be if one of you would relocate because avoiding so many feelings on a long term basis, creates a lot of tension.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-a-break-up-if-we-still-live-together", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Is being mean and fighting with my boyfriend normal after an abortion? nan\nTherapist: Saying that this is a very emotional time for you would be quite the understatement. I would imagine that there are lots of changes in mood and different emotions that you feel about the abortion itself. Also, there are probably quite a few hormonal changes happening as well. The link above is meant to link you to some places that are supportive.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-being-mean-and-fighting-with-my-boyfriend-normal-after-an-abortion", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do you know if someone is an alcoholic? nan\nTherapist: Basically, being an alcoholic means that someone really depends upon alcohol and does not function well or becomes sick if they do not have it. There is also this acronym that may help:Have you ever felt you needed to Cut down on your drinking?Have people Annoyed you by criticizing your drinking?Have you ever felt Guilty about drinking?Have you ever felt you needed a drink first thing in the morning (Eye-opener) to steady your nerves or to get rid of a hangover?There is an online assessment from the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence:\u00a0https://www.ncadd.org/get-help/take-the-test/am-i-alcoholic-self-test There is other information on this site as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-know-if-someone-is-an-alcoholic", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with the pain of losing my baby? nan\nTherapist: First, I'm very sorry that this has happened. In general, I would suggest that you find more than one person in your life who you can trust to talk with about your feelings. If you have no one or would prefer to talk to someone who was not as close to you in that sense, consider speaking with a mental health professional. There is quite a process to grieving and it certainly takes time. Here's a link to some information about some tasks of grieving.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-the-pain-of-losing-my-baby", "topics": "Grief and Loss"}, {"text": "User: I have had a compulsive swallowing tic for the past 9 months\u2014how can I get rid of it? nan\nTherapist: I don't have experience with this type of tic, but I can still give you a few general thoughts. I would first suggest meeting with your primary care physician. They would probably be able to refer you to a specialist to see whether there is a physical cause. Here is some basic information about certain types of tic disorders and under the resources section at the top, there is a link to a list of specialists:\u00a0http://www.movementdisorders.org/MDS/About/Movement-Disorder-Overviews/Tics--Tourette-Syndrome.htmAlso, having awareness of trying not to do something can make it more difficult not to do it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-had-a-compulsive-swallowing-tic-for-the-past-9-months-how-can-i-get-rid-of-it", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my son succeed in life when he refuses it? When my son was a teenager, we sent him to live with his dad because of the constant disrespectful attitude. All four parents tried to talk to him, and he just refuses help all around. He had a job, and took steps to get his license and an insured vehicle. I thought he was heading down the right road, and then he tells me he quit his job because he didn\u2019t like it.\nTherapist: You can continue to offer assistance for your son, but it is ultimately up to him to decide what to do with the information or ideas that you are giving to him. I know you said you quit your job because you didn't like it. Could you tell me more about what you liked and what you didn't like?Do you see yourself doing the same kind of job in the future?What is it that makes you happy or what is it that you look forward to doing?Can you think of anything that I can do to be of support to you?If he is interested, you may be able to connect him with an area community college to learn more about possible job opportunities. With the way that I wrote the questions above, it probably sounds like it's relatively easy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-son-succeed-in-life-when-he-refuses-it", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I'm starting to believe that I'm gay. In middle school and high school, my friends and family thought I was gay. I tried telling them, but they wouldn\u2019t believe me. It almost feels like they wanted me to be. Now I\u2019m actually starting to believe them. I know I wasn\u2019t back then, and now I\u2019m not sure anymore.\nTherapist: We get a lot of pressure from others and even ourselves to define who we are and what we want\u00a0at a pretty early age. I may be wrong, but I am getting the impression that you may not want to be gay. It may help to think about what qualities you find attractive. If you look for these qualities in a person they may lead you to being attracted to someone of the same sex, but maybe not. Preferrably one who has done some training in affirmative therapy. Be well and be you..Robin\u00a0 J. Landwehr, DBH, LPC, NCC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-starting-to-believe-that-i-m-gay", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I have nightmares and flashbacks about a past relationship. I was the one who ended it, and I'm so glad I did. It was the best decision I made in my life. But how do I stop the nightmares and flashbacks? It is creating a wall in my current relationship.\nTherapist: One thing you could try to do on your own is to focus on the partner who is in front of you now. Being mindful of the environment you are currently (for example, noticing what is around you) may be helpful. I would recommend that you talk with a local mental health professional. Remember, just because it was the best decision of your life, that doesn't mean that what happened to you or in your presence automatically leaves you when you leave the relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-nightmares-and-flashbacks-about-a-past-relationship", "topics": "Trauma,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I discuss my fetishes with wife when she is very sexually passive and insecure? nan\nTherapist: When I read terms like \"fetishes\" and that your wife is \"sexually passive and insecure\" I can't help but wonder that there may be more going on within the coupleship and with yourself than what has been asked about in your particular question. Additionally, consider whether or not you need these fetishes as a\u00a0requirement or strongly preferred for sexual excitement; and in its absence do you find yourself being sexually avoidant with your spouse or suffering from some form of erectile dysfunction. An experienced clinician could help you and your wife to navigate through this relational\u00a0terrain\u00a0ensuring all are heard and that the coupleship is honored.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-discuss-my-fetishes-with-wife-when-she-is-very-sexually-passive-and-insecure", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How can I atone for being cowardly? I panicked over a minor parking lot mistake. It was totally my fault, but due to another insurance issue, I left a note with an illegible phone number. Guilty over this, I got an envelope containing several hundred dollars. Unfortunately, by the time I returned, the other driver had seen my ersatz note and drove away. Since I cannot make this up to that individual, how do I atone for my cowardly act? I have been trying to do random acts of kindness in hopes that karma will somehow even out.\nTherapist: Thanks for sharing as it shows your humanity and that you have a sensitive conscience. In your example here I'd encourage you to always think, \"safety first\"; and never offer a stranger at the accident scene \"...several hundred dollars\". To the point, I'm reminded of Steps Eight and Nine in many 12-step programs regarding making amends. What a fascinating journey this could be for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-atone-for-being-cowardly", "topics": "Spirituality,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I find myself? I don't know what to say. I have never really known who I am.\nTherapist: This is perhaps the deepest question that one can ask of themselves and the answer is as elusive as the deepest enigma.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-myself", "topics": "Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: I completely lost myself\u2014how can I find myself again? I've become so jaded that I can't control my thoughts. I cannot focus on anything and been having anxiety attacks.\nTherapist: I imagine that it's pretty disconcerting to feel as though you lost yourself. When you said that you are jaded, I'm not sure whether you mean that you are jaded toward someone, something, life in general, or some combination thereof. Consider remembering that panic attacks usually only last a few minutes and the reason they don't go away right away is because of the way your brain releases chemicals because some part of your brain is reacting as if you are in danger in some way. As far as finding yourself, you may consider looking at what parts of each day you can control as a way to stay centered.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-completely-lost-myself-how-can-i-find-myself-again", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I have a better sex life when I don't like sex? My husband and I have been married for seven years, and in that time, we have only had sex four or five times. Others have told me that most men would have left me by now. Honestly, I think I have a low sex drive or neither one of us actually knows what we are doing. I want to be better connected with my husband.\nTherapist: There are a lot of different things that could be playing a role here. Because you say both that there is a possibility that neither one of you \"actually knows what you're doing,\" and you want to be better connected with your husband, consider having some time where you sit together and touch each other in nonsexual ways and communicate about what you like and don't like. After you both become comfortable with that, you could try the same thing with touching that is sexual in nature. It may be that making positive changes related to your sex life would also improve your relationship, and vice versa.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-better-sex-life-when-i-don-t-like-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: My apartment manager won't let me keep an emotional support dog. I have been diagnosed with general anxiety and depression by my family doctor. They wrote a prescription for me to have an emotional support dog, I have the paper work, and I gave it to my apartment manager. They said I can't keep the ESD because I'm not disabled. What do you suggest I do?\nTherapist: This is tricky because there are different types of emotional support dogs. The ones that are officially trained actually go through months of training and then are paired with someone for whom they perform specific tasks. You may benefit from looking at the blog written by Valerie Parrott, who has an emotional support dog due to severe anxiety and panic. I will warn you that her blog is very blunt, but she is honest and she has gone through this process:\u00a0https://thedogintheroom.wordpress.com/2016/06/20/what-makes-a-service-dog/#more-508", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-apartment-manager-won-t-let-me-keep-an-emotional-support-dog", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: How do I find myself? I don't know what to say. I have never really known who I am.\nTherapist: Because you put this under the category of spirituality, I'm not sure whether you are asking how you find yourself as far as religious or spiritual beliefs or overall. If you are talking about learning more about religious or spirituality, consider either going to or speaking with someone who is involved with a nondenominational church service (the Salvation Army usually has something) so you can discuss questions or ideas that you may have. As far as finding yourself in general, I suggest considering what makes you happy and/or comfortable.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-myself", "topics": "Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid family members who stress me out? My mother takes care of niece whom my sister abandoned. She calls me every day complaining, but I don't want to hear it anymore.\nTherapist: You mentioned that you want to learn how to avoid them. I'm not sure whether you want to avoid them overall or if you would like to ask your mom to maybe only talk to you about it for a few minutes about your niece in each conversation that you have. Maybe you can connect your mom with some support. This is the presumptive based on the amount of information that you posted, but it sounds like there is a bit of a circle of stress here.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-family-members-who-stress-me-out", "topics": "Family Conflict,Stress"}, {"text": "User: Why is my fianc\u00e9 angry at me about his automobile insurance? My fianc\u00e9 and I recently had an argument over finances. He gives me the money each month to pay his automobile insurance. He no longer has one of the vehicles on the policy. He realized he was still paying for the coverage and asked why I was allowing him to continue to do that since I was physically paying it for him. My response was that he was giving me the money, and I just made the payment. I didn't think of the coverages. He was angry about it. I still can't figure out that anger.\nTherapist: I wonder if your fianc\u00e9 is still angry about it or if he was angry in that moment and has now worked through it. It sounds like there was also a difference in expectations here. You were just \u00a0paying the bill with the money he was giving to you and he may have assumed you were reading it. It could be that you could have a discussion about it, but that depends on how much of a hot button issue it still is for either of you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-is-my-fianc-angry-at-me-about-his-automobile-insurance", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I get my ex-girlfriend back? She said she needed space after three days of dating, and she got a boyfriend a week later. I still really miss her, and she told me she still likes me.\nTherapist: It sounds as if your ex-girlfriend is trying to figure out what type of relationship she is looking to have with you. There are lots of levels of relationships, from a basic acquaintance, to a more friendly acquaintance, to a friend, close friend, best friend, early romantic partner, committed romantic partner, and many more. If she is willing to have a conversation with you about her feelings, it may be helpful to have her explain her feelings to you while listening as an investigative reporter and asking questions that cannot be answered with yes or no, but are what are called open-ended questions, which ask her to provide more information. During this process, it would be helpful for you to try to think of it as not being personal, but just listening and trying to understand the experience from her perspective.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-my-ex-girlfriend-back", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Why did my sister not defend me when my ex-husband said bad things about me? I recently went through a divorce. My ex-husband called my sister saying bad things about me. My sister never defended me. Now that I showed the truth, she's shutting me up and saying she doesn't care about the fight. Why didn't she convey that to him from the beginning?\nTherapist: Unfortunately, I can't tell you what your sister was feeling or why she reacted that way. I can say that divorces can be difficult or confusing for everyone involved. Also, a lot of people don't act the same way around extended family (or other people) as they do at home behind closed doors, so there are times when divorce is a real shock to everyone who was not directly involved in it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-did-my-sister-not-defend-me-when-my-ex-husband-said-bad-things-about-me", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Do I text, call, or make contact first, the same day of the morning I left his house? I've known him for about six years. We've dated off and on. I hadn't seen him in close to three years but recently started seeing him again. I really want this to last this time. I stayed the night. Do I text, call, or make contact first, the same day of the morning I left his house?\nTherapist: I don't see why you can't call, text, or make contact first. It would be up to him to reply when he can and wants to, but I don't know why you couldn't initiate contact. One thing to consider as you get to know each other better is having conversations about conversations. For example, you could say \"I'd like to call or text you more often, but I'm concerned about _____ (listing what you are most worried about).\" Then he can discuss his reaction and you can have a dialogue about it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-text-call-or-make-contact-first-the-same-day-of-the-morning-i-left-his-house", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Is there anything I can do to make my anxiety go away? I'm a teenager, and while I\u2019ve never been to any kind of therapist, I noticed I experience several anxiety symptoms. I frequently find myself not going out and following my parent around the house. I can't go into stores (grocery stores specifically) on my own, and when I do, I have to be on the phone with my dad the whole time. I also forget things a lot.\nTherapist: With the way you described your anxiety, it sounds like you have different types of anxiety. Also, if you know what leads up to your anxiety, it would be good to know this as well so you can look for patterns. When you are having anxiety, certain parts of your brain are overactive because you are in a kind of protective mode. Something else to try would be to notice where you feel your anxiety in your body and put your hand there is a way of giving yourself comfort. Also, if you are able to notice your feet on the floor or your hips in the chair, this is helping you to be mindful of your body and connecting you to your surroundings.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-there-anything-i-can-do-to-make-my-anxiety-go-away", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with a break up? My fianc\u00e9 and I broke up. He cheated on me numerous times. I kept forgiving but questioning his every move. He got tired and left.\nTherapist: There is a grieving process after losing a relationship (or any other major loss, such as a job, a house, etc.). You may also find things that make you feel happy or comfortable. It's also helpful to have people who you can talk to about your feelings and people who may be able to recognize things about you that you cannot see right now (such as how you are honest, committed to your work, a good listener, etc.).This takes some time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-a-break-up", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Why does my spouse tell me he doesn't want me, but also gets jealous of me? My spouse decided he no longer wanted me six years ago. Things have deteriorated so badly that we have separated but still live in the same house. He says he despises the sight of me, wants to be with other women, and divorce. What I don't understand is that he says constantly that I have no feelings for him and gets absurdly jealous if I speak to another male. Why does he constantly do these behaviors? I might add he has been diagnosed with borderline personality disorder and as a narcissist.\nTherapist: It sounds as if sometimes your spouse want you to be a part of his life (which could be a part of where the jealousy comes from) and sometimes he doesn't. Talking about this would likely be a delicate conversation and from what you mention he has been diagnosed with, I'm wondering if he has a therapist. Maybe he would be to use more of it because in the contained environment of an therapy office. You could also ask whether he is able to hear what you want, wish for, or desire between the two of you. I hope that you are able to hold onto who you are and what you want throughout this.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-does-my-spouse-tell-me-he-doesn-t-want-me-but-also-gets-jealous-of-me", "topics": "Relationships,Relationship Dissolution ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my partner to stop verbally abusing me? Every time my partner gets angry for anything, she takes it out on me. Nothing I do is right, and once she's mad, she calls me all kinds of names and is verbally abusive. She says it isn\u2019t abuse, it\u2019s just angry verbal bashing, and that it\u2019s different. It gets worse each time. The names are very vulgar now.\nTherapist: One thing you could try is to talk to your partner when she's not angry about the following:If she's angry, maybe she can talk with you about what she is angry about rather than calling you names. Discuss what it is that you find acceptable for you to do during an argumentDiscuss what it is that you find unacceptable for you to do during an argumentDiscuss what is acceptable for her to do during an argumentDiscuss what is on acceptable for her to do during an argumentYour partner can answer the same questions related to herself and you. It may also be helpful to discuss these ideas with a local therapist. It may be helpful for you to see a local therapist by yourself to assess things like physical and emotional safety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-partner-to-stop-verbally-abusing-me", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Domestic Violence"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle being wanted in a relationship when I'm used to feeling unwanted? I've always thought that there wasn't much good out there for me. Now that things are actually going well, it kind of scares me. I spent most of my life feeling unwanted and figured I would be alone. I recently met a great woman who seems to really like me, and I don't know how to process this. It's bothering both of us.\nTherapist: This can be really anxiety-producing when you have not felt it before. Then you could ask questions about how she would react if you were doing something she did not like. You could even remind yourself \"okay, I'm here with [name of girlfriend] and this is okay when I'm with her. \"We all have different levels of defenses in situations in which different people. Another thing that could help is to communicate about communication.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-being-wanted-in-a-relationship-when-i-m-used-to-feeling-unwanted", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I make my relationship with my girlfriend better? She's busy because her mom makes her clean all the time and go out places with her family. We don't talk much because of it. Also, we have little fights. We want to work it out but we don't know how.\nTherapist: Maybe you can start with having 15 minutes per week that you know you will be spending time with each other (even if it needs to be on the phone). That may also help you to rekindle some conversations between you. As far as your little fights, consider spending five minutes with one of you talking about one issue that is a concern and the other partner asking questions that are open-ended (cannot be answered with just yes or no) and listening as an investigative reporter to try to learn more about what the other person is experiencing. Then you know what each other is truly following about this. Also consider noticing what makes you feel valued, special, loved, or appreciated.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-make-my-relationship-with-my-girlfriend-better", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My friend had lied about every aspect of her life\u2014what do I do? She has lied about every aspect of her life. She's created three fake relationships. The most recent one is concerning because she has fake photos, phone calls, and text messages, and it\u2019s with a married man with kids. Her lying is becoming dangerous because she could ruin lives.\nTherapist: To be honest, I think more information would be really important here because what you are asking could have a lot of different meanings. Consider making an appointment with a local therapist to discuss what you are going through.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-friend-had-lied-about-every-aspect-of-her-life-what-do-i-do", "topics": "Social Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I break an unhealthy relationship pattern? I want a secure relationship with someone that wants to be with me and who will actually put effort into it. I seem to gravitate toward unavailable men and those that want intimacy and no relationship. I let men dictate and control me because they accuse me of being controlling. I am not comfortable being alone or doing anything by myself. I feel I need the security of someone being around just to survive. I know what I'm doing wrong and I do it anyway just hoping things will change. How do I stop this behavior and thought process?\nTherapist: Here are some things I'm wondering:Do you have close friends that you can talk to, trust, and who can be around sometimes when you're in between relationships?What do you like about yourself? What are your strongest points?Do you think you have been in relationships with controlling than in the past because it makes you feel as though you are worth something to them?What kind of relationship you want to be in?What are the top three or four attributes of the type of partner you want?What can you do to make yourself emotionally safe during your typical daily activities?Can you notice a list of things that you can control throughout a typical day? It also sounds as if it may be helpful to discover more about yourself in addition to what you look for in a partner.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-break-an-unhealthy-relationship-pattern", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: What is social anxiety? nan\nTherapist: Social anxiety is fear of social situations where someone is exposed to the public scrutiny of others. It could include things like having conversations with people you don't know, being observed, or public speaking, etc. You can find more information here: https://socialanxietyinstitute.org/what-is-social-anxiety", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-social-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I feel like I'm putting my full effort in my studies, but no one thinks that I am. I'm a teenager, and I know the importance of my upcoming schooling. However, no matter how much I put in my best effort, my family thinks I have done zero effort in total. What can I do?\nTherapist: First of all, I'm glad that you posted here and I'm glad that you recognize the importance of schooling. While people can interpret \"effort\" differently, with talking about schoolwork, I would think that your grades would show the effort that you are putting in. If you are getting good grades and you are saying that your family does not think your grades are good enough, maybe there could be a conversation where you are able to ask them what they are expecting from you (and try to listen without defending yourself for a few minutes) and then you could explain what you are doing to prepare. For other families, it means that the grades dropped below 95% and in that family, that is unacceptable.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-i-m-putting-my-full-effort-in-my-studies-but-no-one-thinks-that-i-am", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Should I be upset that my husband may have lied to me again? I\u2019m trying to make marriage work after a split. Before our split, he lied a lot and broke every promise to me. I don't think he cheated. Last month, I asked what women work with him, so he told me. Yesterday, I found out about a girl that he said he forgot about. Should I be upset?\nTherapist: Imagine your best friend just told you that her husband lied to her all the time and that he had broken every promise he ever made to her. If I were her best friend I'd tell her to run the other way. But the evidence is pretty clear, isn't it? A healthy relationship cannot be built on a foundation of lies and broken promises. I believe that as adults, we are always treated as well as we insist on being treated by our partners.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-be-upset-that-my-husband-may-have-lied-to-me-again", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I find myself? I don't know what to say. I have never really known who I am.\nTherapist: The older I get, the more I believe that our real task isn't to 'find' ourselves. What we do have to do is become more mindful of the times when we feel the most alive, most happy, most creative, and most fully engaged with life. It is in those moments that we find ourselves. Don't let old habits, crappy jobs, or mean-spirited people define you. Just stumble your way forward as best you can, with greater self-awareness followed by affirmative action..", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-myself", "topics": "Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: How do I repair my friendship? My best friend and I were pranking her friend, and I told her to tell him that she likes him. She said no, but I forced her. After she told him, he told her that he likes her too. Their friendship is ruined because of me. She won't forgive me, and I feel really guilty. I feel like crying.\nTherapist: I don't know how long it has been, but perhaps if your friend is willing to discuss other things with you for a little while, you could discuss this at some point in the future. Hopefully the true intentions will become apparent (in the idea that it was a prank).Also, I encourage you to look at how this is affecting you and how you feel about yourself as well. If it was meant to be a joke and it did not work, that is not entirely your fault.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-repair-my-friendship", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Should I talk honestly to my brother about his girlfriend, risking our own relationship? My older brother (in his 60s) started dating a lady with Asperger's. She is hyper-sexual and flirty. She does not understand boundaries. They\u2019ve been dating for a few months, and she's talking marriage. Another sibling and his wife have met her, and they have said she is never invited back. My brother always picks similar ladies. Do we speak honestly and risk losing a relationship?\nTherapist: I wonder if you could talk with your brother about whether he would be willing to have a discussion with you about something that is important to you. I also be very honest with you that I cannot guarantee that he will react positively, neutrally, or even that he will have the discussion with you. Because it is true that he could choose to continue dating this girl and perhaps even hold it against you for a while, I would also encourage you to look at the importance of this to you and where you consider the risk-benefit ratio to be.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-talk-honestly-to-my-brother-about-his-girlfriend-risking-our-own-relationship", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Is it bad to fantasize about my mom? nan\nTherapist: There are a couple of things I want to mention and some other colleagues may add other types of information. I want to talk about fantasies (an internal behavior not\u00a0known by others) versus external behaviors that others can see, and your specific question about fantasizing about a parent. The reason I am sharing this with you isn't to make you a psychology major, but rather so that you will know that you are NOT the only person to have such fantasies in adulthood. Something to think about is whether or not you should feel guilty about fantasies. You may have had a rogue fantasy that has now\u00a0taken root.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-bad-to-fantasize-about-my-mom", "topics": "Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: Why am I sick to my stomach when I stand up? I had to put a restraining order against my ex-fianc\u00e9. He was served last night. He was mentally and verbally abusive towards me. I thought it was my nerves, but every time I stand up, I get sick. If I sit and rock, I'm fine.\nTherapist: You may be right, your physical symptoms of getting sick to your stomach\u00a0may very well be your nerves or anxiety. That is totally normal and understandable given your circumstances. Another thing that is not unusual is that you feel better when you sit and rock. They may tell you that they don't see anything physically wrong with you, and at that point you may want to visit a counselor about the symptoms and your relationship experience. A visit with a counselor may be a good idea either way. Sometimes, with counseling, those physical symptoms actually stop.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-sick-to-my-stomach-when-i-stand-up", "topics": "Anxiety,Domestic Violence"}, {"text": "User: Should I be upset that my husband may have lied to me again? I\u2019m trying to make marriage work after a split. Before our split, he lied a lot and broke every promise to me. I don't think he cheated. Last month, I asked what women work with him, so he told me. Yesterday, I found out about a girl that he said he forgot about. Should I be upset?\nTherapist: I would ask you first what made you give him another chance after he repeatedly lied and broke every promise to you? I would imagine if he repeatedly lied to you that it will damage your ability to trust him now. Does he recognize that he has a problem and is he trying to repair it? Even if he truly forgot to tell you about the woman at work I think the real issue here is TRUST. I am not saying that he doesn't have a lying problem.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-be-upset-that-my-husband-may-have-lied-to-me-again", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with a break up? My fianc\u00e9 and I broke up. He cheated on me numerous times. I kept forgiving but questioning his every move. He got tired and left.\nTherapist: if he as cheated on you multiple times it is not healthy for you to continue seeing him. You are not a robot that can just switch off your emotions. Please surround yourself with people who can support and empower you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-a-break-up", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: My friend had lied about every aspect of her life\u2014what do I do? She has lied about every aspect of her life. She's created three fake relationships. The most recent one is concerning because she has fake photos, phone calls, and text messages, and it\u2019s with a married man with kids. Her lying is becoming dangerous because she could ruin lives.\nTherapist: Have an honest and open conversation with her about how her behavior is negatively impacting you ( and others). You will feel good knowing you did the right thing.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-friend-had-lied-about-every-aspect-of-her-life-what-do-i-do", "topics": "Social Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do you know if someone is an alcoholic? nan\nTherapist: Our culture \"normalizes\" drinking but a psychotherapist can diagnose someone with an alcohol problem. They can use various scales as well as the diagnostic manual ICD-10 to assist them in making the proper diagnosis.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-know-if-someone-is-an-alcoholic", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: Can someone with bipolar disorder feel like they are not themselves, like an observer in their own body and not really in control? nan\nTherapist: Well, one of the symptoms of bipolar disorder is having times of really high-energy and kind of feeling like they rule the world, so perhaps. There are also some other things that come to mind when you mention this. For example, the person you are describing could be reacting to something that happened in their past. It would probably be helpful to speak with a local mental health professional.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-someone-with-bipolar-disorder-feel-like-they-are-not-themselves-like-an-observer-in-their-own-body-and-not-really-in-control", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: What can I do when my family doesn't accept my sexuality? I'm a teenage gay girl, and I'm in love with a girl a few years older than me. She loves me too, but we're not physically together at the moment. I've been thinking about being transgender soon too, but my family doesn't accept me, so I honestly don't know what to do about that because I feel like I have to constantly hide the real me. It hurts so much to hide the real me. What can I do?\nTherapist: They would probably be helpful to speak with a local mental health professional about this, not because there's anything wrong with the real you, but because having these conversations can be difficult and you may choose to talk about your real self in different ways with different people. I would like for you to be able to be true to yourself and show the real you. The decision of whether or not to wait longer to tell them is ultimately yours, but I wonder if you have a likelihood of explaining what you are experiencing in a way that would be truer to you and also perhaps easier for your family to follow if you had time to process it with supportive people first.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-when-my-family-doesn-t-accept-my-sexuality", "topics": "LGBTQ,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: The organization I work for has told me I cannot go to my 12 step meetings. This is my recovery, and I don't feel that it is okay for them to ask this. They told me it is policy due to the fact that I may run into a peer there. I am a peer counselor in the small community that I grew up in. I am in recovery myself. I was asked to come work for this organization after I was two years sober (I was in treatment in this organization). I work with mental health peers and run life skill groups. I don't work with substance peers.\nTherapist: I know that workplaces have some latitude when it comes to requiring certain behaviors from their employees. But this situation seems completely different. For one thing, 12 step meetings are supposed to be anonymous. I agree that it seems like to cross a line. If it is but you still want/need to stay at this job, then you may want to look for alternate sources of support for your sobriety. There are also online groups that specifically discuss the 12 steps.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/the-organization-i-work-for-has-told-me-i-cannot-go-to-my-12-step-meetings", "topics": "Addiction,Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: Should I be upset that my husband may have lied to me again? I\u2019m trying to make marriage work after a split. Before our split, he lied a lot and broke every promise to me. I don't think he cheated. Last month, I asked what women work with him, so he told me. Yesterday, I found out about a girl that he said he forgot about. Should I be upset?\nTherapist: Is really difficult to tell whether he honestly forgot about someone or whether he was really lying again. I don't know whether he would be open to having a discussion with you about your concerns about this and whether you would be actually willing to listen to your thoughts about it. If you do decide to have a discussion with your husband about it, \u00a0consider these things:Ask if this is a good time to have a conversation about something that is important to youMaybe you will be able to listen and ask questions about what came up for him (emotionally) when he realized that he didn't tell you about this other personMaybe he would be willing to listen to what you are thinking about if you are both able to do so without blaming, pointing fingers, or asking the other person to change.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-be-upset-that-my-husband-may-have-lied-to-me-again", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My toddler wants her daddy to die when she's mad at him. I told her that if daddy dies, we will never see him again. She started crying because I wouldn't make her daddy die.\nTherapist: Toddlers don't have the intellectual capacity to conceptualize. Better to find out why she wants daddy to die than explain the future consequences of death to your toddler. A person must be around 9, possibly 8 years old before absorbing the potential effects of an action taken in present time. Pretty much your toddler demonstrated to you here age appropriate and limited understanding of the loss of a parent, by crying that you weren't able to magically make her father disappear. Also, please pay attention and form your own opinions as to the reasons why your toddler would wish her father's death.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-toddler-wants-her-daddy-to-die-when-she-s-mad-at-him", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do I find myself? I don't know what to say. I have never really known who I am.\nTherapist: Start by giving yourself enough quiet and time to remember about yourself what feels steady and consistent in your nature and interactions with others. Give yourself the freedom to your interest in having interests. Are you motivated because of competing with others or because an activity itself feels satisfying?If you are able to develop a sense of defining yourself without fear of judging yourself, you will start coming close to knowing who you are.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-find-myself", "topics": "Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: How can I have a better sex life when I don't like sex? My husband and I have been married for seven years, and in that time, we have only had sex four or five times. Others have told me that most men would have left me by now. Honestly, I think I have a low sex drive or neither one of us actually knows what we are doing. I want to be better connected with my husband.\nTherapist: The numbers you write are low compared to how much sex many other people would be satisfied having. The key is your and your husband's satisfaction with the amount of sex you are having. And, know if there are reasons besides low sex drive that possibly explain this. Knowing the other possibilities matter because a low sex life may mean one of you is being satisfied sexually outside the marriage or that one of you prefers sex with a same gendered partner. If you've ruled out these possibilities, and you are satisfied with your emotional and financial life in the relationship, then a low sex drive may simply be the norm for the two of you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-better-sex-life-when-i-don-t-like-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid family members who stress me out? My mother takes care of niece whom my sister abandoned. She calls me every day complaining, but I don't want to hear it anymore.\nTherapist: Then one day when life between you and mom feels calm, tell your mom that you aren't able to listen to her complaints about your sister. The truth exists whether or not it is acknowledged. Bu acknowledging what feels real and necessary in your life, you are helping your mom see what she may not like to see and what nevertheless is right in front of her. There is no good reason or good to come of hiding your own truth about not wishing to continue listening to your mom complain.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-family-members-who-stress-me-out", "topics": "Family Conflict,Stress"}, {"text": "User: Why is my fianc\u00e9 angry at me about his automobile insurance? My fianc\u00e9 and I recently had an argument over finances. He gives me the money each month to pay his automobile insurance. He no longer has one of the vehicles on the policy. He realized he was still paying for the coverage and asked why I was allowing him to continue to do that since I was physically paying it for him. My response was that he was giving me the money, and I just made the payment. I didn't think of the coverages. He was angry about it. I still can't figure out that anger.\nTherapist: I'd be more worried generally about a fiancee who assumes you are responsible for tracking what in fact are his responsibilities, than about the anger per se. What you describe holds the seeds of classic abusive behavior, which is blaming the partner for what in fact are the person's own responsibilities. Start by withdrawing yourself from paying his bills. If he is on his own in terms of tracking what and when is due regarding his auto policy, then surely the only one for him to blame will be himself. Stay clear of involving yourself in doing favors for him if the favor involves something that he is the one accountable.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-is-my-fianc-angry-at-me-about-his-automobile-insurance", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: What should I do about my marriage and my wife's behavior? My wife and I got separated because I asked about her contact with a male friend of hers. The next day, she kicked me out.  She let me move back two days later. Yesterday, she said she wanted a divorce then quickly changed her mind. I asked if the other guy was a factor, but she says it's not my business.\nTherapist: Divorce is a serious, life altering decision. Start by knowing what you want from the marriage and why you are willing to move in or out of your own house because your wife tells you to do this. Each of you would benefit from more clarity of what you expect and would like from each other. Does your wife want a boyfriend in addition to the marriage to you?Is she willing to drop the male contact?Does she care how you feel about her contact with the other guy?You need answers and knowledge about the definition of your marriage.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-about-my-marriage-and-my-wife-s-behavior", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I crossdress and I don't know how to feel about it. I am a heterosexual male in my late 20s. I find myself wearing pantyhose, heels, skirts and other women's clothing in private. I am torn on how to feel about it. I enjoy it very much. I have had a pantyhose/stocking fascination and other kinky fetish interests since I was young. I have no history of sexual abuse growing up. I am currently single.\nTherapist: Let yourself enjoy crossdressing!What sounds in your way are whatever beliefs you gre up hearing, see and absorb currently. Concentrate on your own satisfaction and that you are doing this in a non-harming way. Maybe if you branch out your interest by finding other people who enjoy crossdressing as much as you do. With any interest or activity, social interaction supports it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-crossdress-and-i-don-t-know-how-to-feel-about-it", "topics": "Human Sexuality,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: What should I do about my marriage and my wife's behavior? My wife and I got separated because I asked about her contact with a male friend of hers. The next day, she kicked me out.  She let me move back two days later. Yesterday, she said she wanted a divorce then quickly changed her mind. I asked if the other guy was a factor, but she says it's not my business.\nTherapist: I wonder if the two of you would be able to have a conversation about what it is that she would like you to know about what happened yesterday and the day before so you know what message she wanted you to get out of all of that. I would also recommend seeing a local mental health professional. If you go yourself, you could at least discuss your marriage and your own thoughts and feelings about it. If you go together, I would suggest you see a therapist who specializes in couples.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-about-my-marriage-and-my-wife-s-behavior", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: What should I do after finding my boyfriend flirting on dating websites? I found the guy I\u2019m dating on dating websites. He was telling women that they were beautiful. He said it wasn\u2019t him and that the phone was hacked. It has since happened two other times. He says he loves me and I\u2019m the only girl he wants to be with, but I feel he is not telling me the truth.\nTherapist: I would suggest possibly talking about the type of relationship that both of you want to create. For example, you may want a relationship where honesty, listening, compassion, and romanticism are major parts. You may also consider taking five minutes to see if he will listen to your feelings about him being on the dating site and whether he can work to learn more about what you are experiencing with asking open-ended questions (not being answered with yes or no) and restating what you are saying to see if he has it right. After that, perhaps you could switch so that you can listen to his perspective for five minutes and learn more about what he is doing by asking open-ended questions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-after-finding-my-boyfriend-flirting-on-dating-websites", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I crossdress and I don't know how to feel about it. I am a heterosexual male in my late 20s. I find myself wearing pantyhose, heels, skirts and other women's clothing in private. I am torn on how to feel about it. I enjoy it very much. I have had a pantyhose/stocking fascination and other kinky fetish interests since I was young. I have no history of sexual abuse growing up. I am currently single.\nTherapist: If you enjoy cross-dressing and are comfortable with how you feelaand aware of your own thoughts and feelings about it in private as compared to in public, \u00a0I see no problem with that. If you would like to become more comfortable with it or express more feelings about it, I recommend that you \u00a0see a local mental health professional, not because there is anything wrong with what you are doing, but so you can learn more about yourself in the process. You may discover that you would like to do this in public.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-crossdress-and-i-don-t-know-how-to-feel-about-it", "topics": "Human Sexuality,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How can I get over my fear of public embarrassment? A lot of times, I avoid situations where I am to meet new people because I have a fear of embarrassing myself. I often avoid large groups of people, like parties, because I think they all constantly judge me.\nTherapist: First, I want you to know that you are certainly not alone on this issue. Everyone, at\u00a0some point in time, has a fear of public embarrassment. Escaping a possible embarrassing moment by avoiding or isolating may cause some relief at first, but then many times the avoidance will eventually\u00a0lead to loneliness, isolation, and even despair. There are many self-help books that offer advice on this issue. You can do an internet search, and I recommend reading the reviews of the book. I would recommend a counselor who specializes in helping people who have anxiety or social anxiety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-over-my-fear-of-public-embarrassment", "topics": "Anxiety,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is self-diagnosing okay? I'm currently struggling with diagnosed depression, anxiety, and Misophonia. Also, I am 99% sure I have Borderline Personality Disorder and Avoidant Personality Disorder. I read the DSM-IV, taken college psychology, etc. I know it in my heart I have them. Is self-diagnosing okay with the right research?\nTherapist: Self-diagnosing is something that we all do about one health issue or another. Something as serious as determining a diagnosis really needs to be done by someone who has that objectivity. Sometimes the symptoms of a mental health disorder makes self-diagnoses impossible, in and of itself. There a many examples where something like this could happen with different mental health disorders. Now, does this mean that you are wrong about your diagnosis? But,\u00a0it is important to get this confirmed by a professional mental health clinician.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-self-diagnosing-okay", "topics": "Depression,Anxiety,Diagnosis"}, {"text": "User: I have nightmares and flashbacks about a past relationship. I was the one who ended it, and I'm so glad I did. It was the best decision I made in my life. But how do I stop the nightmares and flashbacks? It is creating a wall in my current relationship.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have not had the opportunity to process through the trauma you have endured. It would help if you have the opportunity to speak with someone on a regular basis until the symptoms of your trauma have subsided.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-nightmares-and-flashbacks-about-a-past-relationship", "topics": "Trauma,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do you overcome an embarrassing mistake and forgive yourself? I am becoming a Water Safety Instructor but I didn't have enough for a proper swimsuit. I was told by a boy in class that my top was displaying everything. I was very embarrassed.\nTherapist: First of all, congratulations to you on becoming a Water Safety Instructor. As far as how to forgive yourself, this is probably one of the toughest things that we ask of ourselves, no matter the subject. Trying to make sure that the same thing doesn't happen again would probably be helpful, but it sounds like you are already doing that. \"You may find some helpful tips here\u00a0http://tinybuddha.com/blog/let-go-past-mistakes-6-steps-forgiving/ or here\u00a0http://psychcentral.com/lib/how-do-you-forgive-yourself/ .", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-overcome-an-embarrassing-mistake-and-forgive-yourself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: I'm not sure if I have social anxiety disorder. I feel too scared to meet people I don't know - even relatives. I don't ever raise my hand or talk in school. I feel like no one understands. How can I handle this?\nTherapist: Congratulations on your courage to ask this question!This shows you are willing to engage with other people, just not in all situations, especially the in person ones. One way to move out from this position of feeling less than others, is to recognize that these feelings are inside of you. We are all equal in worth and in having blindspots about ourselves. Also, it is possible that you are naturally shy and may be expecting more from yourself than is reasonable, in terms of a standard about meeting others. Overcoming fears of being judged is different than forcing yourself to do what is against your basic nature.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-not-sure-if-i-have-social-anxiety-disorder", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Why do I get angry so easily? Sometime when small thing happen, like losing a comb, I get furious.  I even start throwing things. Do I have a problem?\nTherapist: Anyone who asks whether or not they have a problem, usually feels at least partly, that they do have a problem. Your answer to the question is what matters. Since you already understand that your reaction is overstated to the events which trigger them, the reactions you're having are more than likely anger that is leftover from past events, either in the near or distant past. Be aware, consider, reflect on \u00a0how you usually handle feeling angry. Knowing more about the more significant matters causing frustration for you, may very likely decrease reacting angrily toward smaller matters.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-get-angry-so-easily", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: How do I stop a bully who adults wouldn't recognize as bullying without speaking to the bully? She mostly targets me on social media. The bullying used to be much worse, but it is still going on. The comments are so vague, but I know that they are meant for me. Even when I confront her, she messages me short phrases to try to get in my head. If I try to fight back, she will ruin me.\nTherapist: Feeling intimidated by another person is very unsettling. Bullies do not have the same dynamics as everyone else. No one can convince or persuade or talk a bully out of their behavior. The best protection for yourself, assuming you are not being physically threatened by the person, is to close contact with them. This does not take away any of the disappointment or sadness of wishing for a better relationship with the person. Until the bully wants to interact differently with others, only harm can result from contact with them.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stop-a-bully-who-adults-wouldn-t-recognize-as-bullying-without-speaking-to-the-bully", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm not sure if I have social anxiety disorder. I feel too scared to meet people I don't know - even relatives. I don't ever raise my hand or talk in school. I feel like no one understands. How can I handle this?\nTherapist: It certainly sounds like you have some anxiety. Before deciding whether it was social anxiety or a more general type of anxiety, I would wonder what it is that you think will result from you raising your hand or talking to someone you don't know. Here is some information on social anxiety:\u00a0https://socialanxietyinstitute.org/what-is-social-anxietyI would recommend talking to a local mental health professional. It sounds like your anxiety is affecting your daily life and there are lots of strategies that may help to lessen that.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-not-sure-if-i-have-social-anxiety-disorder", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I feel like my relationship is falling apart. My boyfriend and I have been arguing every night about the same thing. He also tells me that if I  go visit my mother out of state he will be gone when I get back.  He and my mother do not get along. What should I do?\nTherapist: It's ultimately your decision whether or not you go to see your mother. The word why can be really difficult for some people to answer because the word itself triggers an emotional reaction. Try to ask him if the two of you can discuss this in a way that you can just ask more questions about what he is experiencing. If you can listen without being defensive about what you think and feel, you may understand more about where you boyfriend is coming from. Remember that understanding what he means does not mean that you have to agree with what he is saying.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-my-relationship-is-falling-apart", "topics": "Relationships,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle getting the silent treatment from my boyfriend? When my boyfriend gets in a snit, he gives me the silent treatment for days. When I ask what is wrong, I get nothing: no reply, no phone call. If he does reply, it is something very sarcastic and hurtful. He never admits he is wrong and never apologizes.\nTherapist: It's pretty common for members of a couple to have different ways of resolving conflict. It could even be that he's learned to handle conflict that way. Something else you could try is to have a conversation where you each discuss what is acceptable for what is acceptable for each of you during an argument and what is not. You may also consider finding ways to soothe yourself. For example, you may find that you like certain outdoor activities or reading a certain type of book or something else that gives you pleasure.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-getting-the-silent-treatment-from-my-boyfriend", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why do I get angry so easily? Sometime when small thing happen, like losing a comb, I get furious.  I even start throwing things. Do I have a problem?\nTherapist: However I would say that you have an issue that needs to be addressed and controlled before it directed at the wrong person and gets totally out of control. I have found that anger management classes has been helpful for my clients. You will be surprised at what you learn about your self.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-get-angry-so-easily", "topics": "Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: Can someone with bipolar disorder feel like they are not themselves, like an observer in their own body and not really in control? nan\nTherapist: What you are describing sounds like dissociation, which can happen with folks who have bipolar disorder. To a certain extent, all people experience dissociation at some point, but it can become severe for some people. the feeling like you are detached from yourself, and 2. I would suggest looking up bipolar disorder and dissociation and see if these symptoms seem familiar. If so, you should consider discussing it with a mental health provider. Be well,Robin J. Landwehr, DBH, LPCC, NCC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-someone-with-bipolar-disorder-feel-like-they-are-not-themselves-like-an-observer-in-their-own-body-and-not-really-in-control", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Why do I find pleasure in thinking about killing? I am a peaceful person, but I often find myself having thoughts about killing people. Eventhough I like the thoughts at the time, they make me cry. Why do I feel like this?\nTherapist: Clearly this is something that has you very concerned. Sometimes thoughts are just thoughts, and they are pretty harmless. I would recommend meeting with a counselor to discuss these thoughts. It is usually a safe environment where you can get advice with little judgement. Now, If you begin to start thinking about killing someone specific and making a plan to do it in reality- you should call for help immediately. Either way, when we become concerned about some aspect of our behavior, seeking counseling is usually a good choice. Be well, Robin J. Landwehr, DBH, LPCC, NCC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-find-pleasure-in-thinking-about-killing", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my husband after a suicide attempt? After he got home from the hospital he was angry, then for a time wonderful.  Now he is depressed and hopeless again.\nTherapist: This is actually more common then we often realize, and actually understandable, as he has gone through a trauma, an unresolved existential crisis. He was taken care of by others and now is again left alone with his own internal, and rather horrific inner struggle. In my work with CCT, or Contextual Conceptual Therapy, (see www.suicidetherapy.com) I have learned how trapped suicidal\u00a0people are in their own isolation, also called a \"mysterious isolation,\" a form of self protection which cuts the off from their Self, or spirit.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-husband-after-a-suicide-attempt", "topics": "Marriage,Depression,Self-harm"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to dislike one child? I have three children. The oldest is nine and not my biological child. The middle child is three and the youngest is one. I have a great relationship with the oldest two children but I haven't developed the same level of attatchment to the youngest child. I rarely want her around and look forward to her nap times. Is this normal?\nTherapist: This is your experience, your feeling and you are wondering if it is normal, which means is this common or the rule. This question about how you feel about your third child leads me to believe you are dis- turbed [etymology: agitated or stirred up]. So, though \u00a0it might be normal [common, the rule] \u00a0to look forward to a one year olds nap time when you have a three year old a nine year old, the dis- turbance or stirring up in you,\u00a0is important and requires your attention, your listening, if you will to your higher self.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-dislike-one-child", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my husband after a suicide attempt? After he got home from the hospital he was angry, then for a time wonderful.  Now he is depressed and hopeless again.\nTherapist: I don't mean to frighten you, but you are right to be concerned. It is also a good time to alert your support system of friends, family, clergy or others to let them know he is still struggling. This is where your support system can help out. If you believe that an attempt is going to occur, talk to your husband about going back to the hospital. Sometimes when you get them through the crisis stage, they no longer want to commit suicide. But, as you are indicating, that feeling of wanting to commit suicide can come back again.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-husband-after-a-suicide-attempt", "topics": "Marriage,Depression,Self-harm"}, {"text": "User: My fianc\u00e9's ex-husband shows up unannounced. he just walks in the house whenever he wants to see his kids. My fianc\u00e9 tells me it makes her angry and doesn't like it, but she seems afraid to say anything to him about it for some reason. Is it okay for him to do this?\nTherapist: The short answer to your question is \"No\" it's not okay for anyone to ever be doing this. There's a lot of unanswered questions and other factors going on here that need attention. Nevertheless, don't hesitate to seek out legal counsel and/or call 911. Ideally, your\u00a0fianc\u00e9  would be able to speak directly to her ex-husband and set reasonable boundaries that honor whatever legal agreements are in force resultant from the divorce and custody agreements.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-fianc-s-ex-husband-shows-up-unannounced", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting,Relationship Dissolution ,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my husband after a suicide attempt? After he got home from the hospital he was angry, then for a time wonderful.  Now he is depressed and hopeless again.\nTherapist: I'm thankful to read your husband found care and that his suicide attempt wasn't successful. This typically includes things like committing to a contract 'not to harm' and what to do if he felt overwhelmed by his anger, depression, and hopelessness (e.g. call 911, call therapist, go to nearest hospital emergency department). Additionally, his protocol would've provided instructions for his taking medication(s) as directed, having a follow-up appointment(s) with his psychiatrist/psychologist/clinical social worker, and participating in some form of small group support.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-husband-after-a-suicide-attempt", "topics": "Marriage,Depression,Self-harm"}, {"text": "User: How do therapists characterize personality types? How do therapists classify the type of personality their clients have?  What characteristics do they look at to decide what type of personality the client has? I've read about this online, but I'd like to understand this from a therapist's point of view.\nTherapist: There is such a wide range of ways to define \"personality\" that it is difficult to identify specific characteristics that are used to identify personality types. That being said, some clinicians will use standardized tests (or assessments) to assess a client's type of personality. While these tests can't tell us everything about a person, they can help us understand where we are within larger groups of different personality styles. Some counselors will also use a diagnostic tool (like the DSM or ICD) to help a client understand a diagnosis that is related to a personality disorder.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-therapists-characterize-personality-types", "topics": "Diagnosis,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Unethical Therapy Practices. What do you do when a therapist and a parent drugs a child and makes up lies in order to stop the other parent's custody visitation?\nTherapist: This sounds like a potentially serious situation. The most important thing is to make sure the child is safe. If you suspect that a child is (or has been) harmed, I would strongly recommend that you report your concerns to your local law enforcement or to Child Protective Services. If you don't think that a child is in danger, you can still report your suspicion of counselor misconduct to the state regulatory board.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/unethical-therapy-practices", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: I have nightmares and flashbacks about a past relationship. I was the one who ended it, and I'm so glad I did. It was the best decision I made in my life. But how do I stop the nightmares and flashbacks? It is creating a wall in my current relationship.\nTherapist: You mention that you're the one who ended the relationship in the past, yet are haunted by nightmares and flashbacks. Doing so will serve you well for your own peace-of-mind especially so in your current relationship. The therapist may, if indicated, wish to to incorporate EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) which \"...is a psychotherapy that enables people to heal from the symptoms and emotional distress that are the result of disturbing life experiences. Resource for Your Consideration:\u00a0http://www.emdr.com/", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-nightmares-and-flashbacks-about-a-past-relationship", "topics": "Trauma,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do therapists characterize personality types? How do therapists classify the type of personality their clients have?  What characteristics do they look at to decide what type of personality the client has? I've read about this online, but I'd like to understand this from a therapist's point of view.\nTherapist: This is a great question, and I am happy to have the opportunity to explain my approach. When I am determining what type of personality a client has, I take my time and really absorb their lens/ point of view to themselves and others. After taking time to get to know them, and learning about their view they have of themselves and others, it is important to pick-up on more specific personality traits, which comprehensively contribute to a personality type. Clinicians, including myself, often witness certain traits that are enduring and consistent, which indicate a type of personality.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-therapists-characterize-personality-types", "topics": "Diagnosis,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Can I go see a psychiatrist without my dad finding out, even if I am on his insurance? nan\nTherapist: It might be possible, but it's difficult. First, \u00a0depending on how old you are, you might be able to restrict \u00a0a \u00a0mentalhealth \u00a0provider from disclosing your confidential information to your parents. It seems like you might have a few options. You might want to try talking to your dad about seeing a psychiatrist. They could also help you find some confidential options.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-go-see-a-psychiatrist-without-my-dad-finding-out-even-if-i-am-on-his-insurance", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: The organization I work for has told me I cannot go to my 12 step meetings. This is my recovery, and I don't feel that it is okay for them to ask this. They told me it is policy due to the fact that I may run into a peer there. I am a peer counselor in the small community that I grew up in. I am in recovery myself. I was asked to come work for this organization after I was two years sober (I was in treatment in this organization). I work with mental health peers and run life skill groups. I don't work with substance peers.\nTherapist: You definitely want to make sure not to inadvertently create an inappropriate dual relationship with a client. In fact, it is not uncommon for state regulatory boards to determine that a clinician and client being in the same 12 step group is professional misconduct. You might want to consider attending a 12 step meeting that is located in a different community than the one you work in. Another option would be to look for one-on-one or small group recovery support.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/the-organization-i-work-for-has-told-me-i-cannot-go-to-my-12-step-meetings", "topics": "Addiction,Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: Is it a normal practice for a team of doctors who are connected by state or profession to discontinue your treatment? They discontinued treatment for no apparent reason after they thought to diagnose me with schizophrenia.\nTherapist: The general rule against medical abandonment\u00a0says thst whenever healthcare providers discontinue treatment with you when you still need it, they are legally required to make sure that you have access to another provider of equal or higher ability. In this case, if your treatment team decided to discontinue your treatment based on a diagnosis of schizophrenia, they still will likely be required to provide you with a referral to someone who can provide you with treatment. If you haven't already done so, I'd recommend that you explicitly ask for a referral.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-a-normal-practice-for-a-team-of-doctors-who-are-connected-by-state-or-profession-to-discontinue-your-treatment", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: How do I end an unhealthy relationship? My boyfriend  and I have a toxic relationship due to his emotional and verbal abuse but he makes me feel like I could never find someone better, and that I can't be happy without him.  How do I get away from this relationship?\nTherapist: I'm glad you recognize your own best interest and that your life will be much better without verbal and emotional abuse. One of the terrible results of being abused in a relationship which is expected to be loving, safe and supportive, is that the one who is being abused, starts to question their own judgement, rights, opinions, overall way of thinking. This happens because partners who are intimately involved with one another are very meaningful. There is a part within each of us which knows the truth of what is going on. Leaving a relationship is always difficult to some degree.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-end-an-unhealthy-relationship", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I think I empathize too much. I empathize so much, even with characters on tv or in video games, that I actually feel physical pain. This has made life difficult to say the least.  I believe I have an actually case of something called hyper empathy disorder. But since it's such a new disorder I can't find any information about it. Could this be what is going on with me?\nTherapist: The world needs more people lately who have such a high degree of empathy which you describe in yourself!If it feels a little burdensome, then look to balance what is too much with its opposite. In the situation you describe, when you start empathizing with others, real or cartoon, ask yourself whether you've felt empathy coming in your direction lately. The emotional brain reasons that if I give you my support, say, then at least I will feel half of what being supported is like. Obviously the wish to receive more empathy cannot be fulfilled by you directly. Empathy is delivered by someone who is willing to offer it. Start with knowing the amount of empathy you'd like from others and what stops you from asking.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-think-i-empathize-too-much", "topics": "Diagnosis"}, {"text": "User: I'm transgender. I want help and I need help. nan\nTherapist: It's courageous to seek help, and I applaud you. It is about seeking help through therapy; however, they also have a listing of trans support groups throughout the US, which you can find here:\u00a0http://forge-forward.org/directories/listing/. I would start by connecting with a local organization that can guide you to support groups, and trans-affirming counselors. There are people out there willing and able to help.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-transgender-i-want-help-and-i-need-help", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my husband after a suicide attempt? After he got home from the hospital he was angry, then for a time wonderful.  Now he is depressed and hopeless again.\nTherapist: The fact that you're reaching out for help here is really helpful. Perhaps you can have a conversation with your husband this and mention that you are asking him questions to learn more about his experience and you can discuss how you notice that things were going much better when he came home from the hospital, and now things are not as good. Perhaps he can tell you about what is different so that you may know him would be most helpful to him. I also hope that you husband is still continuing with his own treatment. There may also be a local peer support telephone number for the county that you live in that they be able to help you determine whether your husband needs more immediate treatment if he is feeling hopeless again.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-husband-after-a-suicide-attempt", "topics": "Marriage,Depression,Self-harm"}, {"text": "User: Is it appropriate to give my counselor a bottle of wine for Christmas? I am an international student, and it is my first semester in graduate school in the United States. I faced a cultural shock, and I was so depressed when I arrived here. My counselor in the university was my savior. He helped me a great deal. Now I am going back to my country for a vacation. I was thinking to get him something special with my country's name on it, and I remembered that he likes wine. My country is known for that. Is it appropriate to give him wine as a gift after Christmas?\nTherapist: I don't think it's appropriate to give your counselor a bottle of wine. Your counselor helped you and supported you, which is great, But a gift is inappropriate. I can understand that you want to show your gratitude. You could drop your counselor a note or card, thank him in person, or tell him how much he helped you. These small gestures can be very meaningful for both of you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-appropriate-to-give-my-counselor-a-bottle-of-wine-for-christmas", "topics": "Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: How can I see my base doctor without my ID? I need to get on base to see my doctor. My ID card was in my wallet which was stolen. I\u2019m unable to reach my husband at this time. He is only one who can take me on base in order to get a new ID so I can continue to see doctor. Is there anything I can do?\nTherapist: You should be able to get a replacement ID card either from the Personnel Office on your local base (the actual name of this office will vary depending on which branch of the military it is). You may also be required to go to the Military Police or Security office on base to report the loss of your old ID card.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-see-my-base-doctor-without-my-id", "topics": "Military Issues "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to cry during therapy? I start counseling/therapy in a few days (I'm freaking out) but my main fear is that I'll cry and embarrass myself, is it something to worry about?\nTherapist: People cry, laugh, rage, rant, and talk during counseling sessions. Part of the therapy process is to look at your feelings, and to feel what you are actually feeling (instead of what you think you should feel). If you feel embarrassed because you cried, or if you feel anxious that you might cry, well those feelings are ok as well. Your counselor can help you manage your feelings so that you can attain your goals, and your counseling session is the perfect place for that.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-cry-during-therapy", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to cry during therapy? I start counseling/therapy in a few days (I'm freaking out) but my main fear is that I'll cry and embarrass myself, is it something to worry about?\nTherapist: I have a stack of kleenex boxes in my office. Cry away, therapist are very used to it:) First time being in therapy is scary, but you'll soon know if you are a good match.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-cry-during-therapy", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to cry during therapy? I start counseling/therapy in a few days (I'm freaking out) but my main fear is that I'll cry and embarrass myself, is it something to worry about?\nTherapist: Please feel free to cry during therapy if you suddenly feel painful emotions arising when you describe some of your unsatisfying and unfulfilling relationships and situations. Crying when realizing the emotional hurt and unfairness between you and someone, clears you for new ways of handling interactions. As a therapist, I always have a box of tissues on the table next to the couch where people who utilize my therapy, sit. I hope you will soon discover that once your tears unlock your awareness of harmful relationships in your life, you will quickly see the freedom to establish new and happier patterns of relating.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-cry-during-therapy", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to cry during therapy? I start counseling/therapy in a few days (I'm freaking out) but my main fear is that I'll cry and embarrass myself, is it something to worry about?\nTherapist: People do cry in therapy sometimes, but it's not at all necessary to cry in order for most kinds of therapy to be helpful. When you start counseling you don't yet know your counselor very well, so it's normal to keep your feelings in check until you feel comfortable and a bit more relaxed with your counselor and with the situation. Sometimes, though, there are emotions that have been waiting and waiting to finally find someone who will listen with a kind ear. If you feel safe right away in the situation with your counselor, you might just cry in spite of your fears about it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-cry-during-therapy", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I'm worried about my new job. I just took a job that requires me to travel far away from home. My family and I really need this job.  People keep telling me I have \"anxiety\" and I'm terrified of having an anxiety attack on the road. This is all new to me. What can I do?\nTherapist: Anxiety can cause such a feeling of discomfort in our bodies that it can seem unbearable. The concern that I can hear in what you have written is that the thought of having some anxiety has now left you uncomfortable with any anxiety at all - and that can become a problem, indeed. As opposed to thinking about your anxiety as something much bigger than you, it could be helpful to start breaking it down. Once you start breaking down what causes you to feel anxiety into smaller \"mouthfuls\", then we are far better able to understand what has led to discomfort and start to problem solve the issue.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-about-my-new-job", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: How do I quit letting little things bother me and be the mom that my kids deserve? nan\nTherapist: Well, my first question was whether these are truly little things or things you really think the attention. Looking at this on a scale 1 to 10 or 1 to 100 may be helpful. You may have a better way of explaining things so that they learn from the correction that you try to give them rather than repeating yourself. You could also consider coming up with some affirming phrases for yourself, such as \"it's okay for this to happen\" or \"I know they're not always going to get it right\" or \"I know that I can't always make them change overnight.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-quit-letting-little-things-bother-me-and-be-the-mom-that-my-kids-deserve", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Is screaming and cussing at your child considered emotional abuse? My dad is always, and I mean always, cussing and screaming at me for no reason at all. He makes me feel stupid. He also compares me to my other siblings in a negative way and demeans me. Is this abuse?\nTherapist: I'm really sorry to hear that you are going through this. It's a little difficult to answer your question because the laws that define child abuse are different from state to state. But usually, things like what you describe your dad is doing are not considered to be child abuse. The more important thing is how you feel about what is going on. It sounds like this is really bothering you. They may be able to help you figure out some ways to communicate with your dad.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-screaming-and-cussing-at-your-child-considered-emotional-abuse", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory,Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my husband after a suicide attempt? After he got home from the hospital he was angry, then for a time wonderful.  Now he is depressed and hopeless again.\nTherapist: A failed suicide attempt is commonly thought of as a \u201ccry for help,\u201d however it can also be a serious attempt to find a permanent solution to depression, hopelessness or other feelings a person feels are unbearable. With a mental health professional, or in the emergency room of a hospital, your husband should be evaluated for suicidal thoughts, intent and plan, and if he is a danger to himself he should probably be hospitalized again until he is stable. As they say, \u201cput your oxygen mask on first.\u201d Then you will be better able to provide your husband with calm and loving care and attention. Kayla Schwartz, LMSWkayla@nyccounseling.com", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-husband-after-a-suicide-attempt", "topics": "Marriage,Depression,Self-harm"}, {"text": "User: Is screaming and cussing at your child considered emotional abuse? My dad is always, and I mean always, cussing and screaming at me for no reason at all. He makes me feel stupid. He also compares me to my other siblings in a negative way and demeans me. Is this abuse?\nTherapist: Everyone deserves to be treated with dignity and respect. Having said that, everyone gets upset once in awhile and may yell or scream, which can be disrespectful. If your dad curses and screams at you on a regular and consistent basis, it can (as you stated) impact the way you feel about yourself. While the definitions of child abuse differ from state to state, talking to someone can help. You do not have to go through this situation alone.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-screaming-and-cussing-at-your-child-considered-emotional-abuse", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory,Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I over endulge when I drink alcohol and feel extremely guilty about it the next day. I'm a female in my mid 20s.  Lately I tend to over drink and I've become a very angry drunk.   In the past, I have even cheated on my boyfriend while I was under the influence of alcohol.   But now, even if I don't do anything wrong and don't embarrass myself, I still feel really guilty after a night of drinking. I don't understand why I'm feeling this way. Does this mean I have a problem?\nTherapist: The short answer is yes - if you feel 'really guilty after a night of drinking', then you probably have a problem. What you could do is visit this website by the National Institutes of Health:\u00a0http://rethinkingdrinking.niaaa.nih.gov/How-much-is-too-much/ \u00a0There you will find information on how many drinks is too much, and the general answer for women is more than seven drinks in a week. There is also a quiz you can take anonymously that will help you determine if your drinking is a problem.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-over-endulge-when-i-drink-alcohol-and-feel-extremely-guilty-about-it-the-next-day", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my husband after a suicide attempt? After he got home from the hospital he was angry, then for a time wonderful.  Now he is depressed and hopeless again.\nTherapist: I appreciate that you are concerned about your husband's emotions and want to support him as best you can right now. I imagine that you must be going through your own difficult time too. You've had a complicated shock and trauma in your life and in your marriage; it's normal for both of your emotions to move from hope to despair to fear, anger, gratitude... there is no wrong way to feel and there is no particular pattern your emotions or his will follow. Try not to assume what he is feeling but ask him instead. \" Certainly it will help you if you know what he's thinking and feeling because he hid his intentions to hurt himself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-husband-after-a-suicide-attempt", "topics": "Marriage,Depression,Self-harm"}, {"text": "User: I am very self conscious about my body. On the first day of school I wore a bra that was too big so that it would look like I had bigger boobs.  I did that the whole school year and my parents never found out. But now I can never hang out with my friends at my house or invite them over because it would be around my parents and my friends would see there is nothing there on my chest.   How do I fix this?\nTherapist: I get how you feel; you wish your body looked different and you're embarrassed that you tried to make it look different and people may notice. It's likely that, if you are young, your body will change as you mature, but in general, we're given the bodies we're given and I'm glad to see that there may be a desire in you to accept your body the way it is. Young people often believe that others are noticing and judging them. In fact, other people are far more preoccupied with who might be judging them than whatever's going on with you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-very-self-conscious-about-my-body", "topics": "Self-esteem,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm attracted to my boss. I've been suppressing it for quite some time, but there are days when I can't make eye contact with her. I think she knows, and we both admitted there was some type of vibe, but the overall discussion was vague. I think she could possibly be dating someone that works with us. It's driving me crazy. As an act of expression, I have purchased a gift for her that's personalized. I haven't given it to her yet.\nTherapist: Human attractions can be tricky things, and in this case - a power dynamic. In the workplace, a boss usually has the power to hire, fire, set schedules, approve vacations, and evaluate performance. Because of this power dynamic, most employee handbooks expressly forbid supervisors and their direct employees being in a romantic relationship. Perhaps you should check your employee handbook. While you may be attracted to your boss, and your feelings may be strong, it might be in your best interests to resist acting upon them.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-attracted-to-my-boss", "topics": "Relationships,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is screaming and cussing at your child considered emotional abuse? My dad is always, and I mean always, cussing and screaming at me for no reason at all. He makes me feel stupid. He also compares me to my other siblings in a negative way and demeans me. Is this abuse?\nTherapist: There is no abuse without emotional abuse. His abuse is demeaning and can have lasting negative impact on your perspective of your self and people around you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-screaming-and-cussing-at-your-child-considered-emotional-abuse", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory,Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I did something I can't get over. I was with my friends fishing by a pond. I found a frog and stabbed it with my friend's knife. I'm not sure why I did it. My friends saw me do it it and were shocked and got really mad at me.  Now if someone brings it up I get really upset and panicked. I don't know why I feel like this. Does this mean there is something wrong with me?\nTherapist: The good news is your awareness that being violent to animals feels out of character for you. I'm glad you have awareness and I'm glad you are not at ease with killing frogs. Basically, you did unto the frog what someone has or to you, feels like, has been done to you. Use your surprising finding of how strong your anger and most likely inward pain. It is also wrong that someone close to you hurt you. The direction to go is to recognize your pain and then decide how to go about changing what is possible on your side of that or those relationship(s).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-did-something-i-can-t-get-over", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I quit letting little things bother me and be the mom that my kids deserve? nan\nTherapist: What you call \"little things\" may only seem little in general and to you are quite meaningful, either in fact or because the little things represent much more serious matters in your life. Track the timeline of what is going on around the time you feel bothered by little things. These two indicators may show you patterns of when and to what you are especially sensitive. For example, if you usually feel bothered at the end of a pressured day then take care to arrange as far as possible, relatively unstimulated and quiet surroundings around this sensitive time. People, including kids, always do better with more information than not knowing what is going on in their lives.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-quit-letting-little-things-bother-me-and-be-the-mom-that-my-kids-deserve", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I have long spurts of depression, anxiety, and need change constantly\u2014why? I'm depressed often, and my mind goes a million miles a minute. Every once in a while, things are okay for a few days. After a bit, I start noticing that I am picking at my skin profusely. After roughly a week, the anxiety is back and still picking. Sometimes I find myself causing fights to have change.\nTherapist: I have a few thoughts and perhaps some of my colleagues will add something else. Depression and anxiety can both be chronic conditions, as you have experienced. This means that they may always require treatment in order to have some kind of relief from them. Some people may take medication for the rest of their lives. These are ways to try to avoid, escape and distract yourself from the feelings of anxiety and depression. The reason for this is that the medication can help with symptoms, while the counseling can address the symptoms and provide you with very helpful skills. Be well,Robin J. Landwehr, DBH, LPCC, NCC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-long-spurts-of-depression-anxiety-and-need-change-constantly-why", "topics": "Anxiety,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend does not do some sexual things with me that he has done with other people. My boyfriend won't touch me intimately, he won't kiss me while we are having sex and he won't have oral sex with me. I know he has done this things with other women in the past. I don't know why he won't do them with me. What should I do?\nTherapist: First off, don't blame yourself or be too quick to jump to any scary conclusions. It could also be that he puts you in a different category than previous lovers. If you haven't asked him yet, you might try gently approaching the subject when you're not already in the bedroom or trying to get in on and inquire what he most enjoys about sex with you (or has enjoyed in the past, or thinks he might enjoy). Give him an ego boost and tell him what he does well while then asking him if he'd be down to go downtown.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-does-not-do-some-sexual-things-with-me-that-he-has-done-with-other-people", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why does my husband like dressing as a female in our bedroom? He wants to wear makeup and heels. He even tucks his penis away to resemble a vagina. He wants me to wear a strap on and have anal sex with him. I have tried this for him, but I don\u2019t like it and have told him so. He keeps making comments about it and says he can't live without it.\nTherapist: Depending on your own sexual history and what you grew up expecting to be \"normal\" in the bedroom, I can easily imagine that this came as quite a shock to you! It's also an internal guideline for how we each define our role in sexual expression, sexual orientation, sexual behaviors, sexual desires, and how big a part our sexual identity plays in our everyday lives (Gagnon & Simon, 1973).You've been clued into the fact that your husbands greatly differs from yours on the surface level at the moment. Both partners learning to communicate openly and honestly about their feelings. However, if your husband is for sure absolutely adamant about \"needing\" to dress in a female fashion and/or be anally penetrated, you may seek professional counseling to help navigate how both of you will come to an agreement about fulfilling these desires in a way that doesn't hurt either one of you or the marriage.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-does-my-husband-like-dressing-as-a-female-in-our-bedroom", "topics": "Marriage,Human Sexuality,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: My sexual partner wants me to reimburse him on a hotel room. I was having a sexual relationship with a coworker. Before I got paid, I told him I would have $25.00, which I thought I would. I don't think it's right that he want me to reimburse him $25.00 for a hotel room he wanted to get in the first place. I told him I had to pay rent and my rent was late. He texted me saying I need to get two or three jobs.\nTherapist: It really is up to you to decide if you owe him the $25.00. If you feel like it is the right thing to do based on your discussion with him, then pay when you can. I know that it can be a lot of money if you don't have much, but that doesn't give someone the right to call you names and harass you through texts. You may want to take some time and think about your relationship and make sure that these are the qualities and behaviors you want in a sexual partner. Be well,Robin J. Landwehr, DBH, LPCC, NCC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-sexual-partner-wants-me-to-reimburse-him-on-a-hotel-room", "topics": "Relationships,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My girlfriend is always accusing me of cheating on her when I haven't. Over a year ago I had a female friend. She turned out to be kind of crazy so I decided to stop talking to her.  When she would call me I wouldn't answer the phone. This made my girlfriend really suspicious. She would ask me why I wouldn't ever answer that phone number. I told my girlfriend that I don't want to be friends with that other woman, but I don't think she believes me. How can I get my girlfriend to understand?\nTherapist: We women really do tend to struggle with the comparison game. So you might try sharing a little bit more about your history with this woman. And if you really want to step it up, I would be intentional about doing all the little things that you know your girlfriend loves that helped make her fall in love with you in the first place (e.g., little love notes for her to find or sweet text messages, buy a rose or her favorite flower, have her car detailed, do the laundry...date nights...you get the idea). And would continue to do so all over again.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-girlfriend-is-always-accusing-me-of-cheating-on-her-when-i-haven-t", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is screaming and cussing at your child considered emotional abuse? My dad is always, and I mean always, cussing and screaming at me for no reason at all. He makes me feel stupid. He also compares me to my other siblings in a negative way and demeans me. Is this abuse?\nTherapist: Oh my goodness, my heart goes out to you!! I pray you have other strong and supportive loved ones or friends surrounding you. Societally Abusive StatementsHow dare you spread around our private business!Let me do the talking; people listen to men. Even if you feel you can't defend yourself outwardly, that doesn't mean your father's awful and toxic behavior is something you should ever internalize (i.e., believe to be true) which is why I hope you are surrounding yourself with people who will speak life and positivity back over you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-screaming-and-cussing-at-your-child-considered-emotional-abuse", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory,Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my roommate's drinking problem? My roommate has had a drinking problem for a while. She goes out, gets trashed, and then expects everyone to take care of her. The next morning, she apologizes constantly until she feels validated. She also thinks everyone hates her all the time. If I don't seem anything other than happy, she asks me \"Do you hate me? You hate me. Tell me you love me,\" and I feel like I have to pity her because she has also been suicidal before.\nTherapist: It does sound like your roommate may have a drinking problem, and the short answer is that you can't do anything about it, only she can. We can't change what other people say, think, or do. It does sound like your roommate may be having a hard time. You can suggest that she enter counseling or therapy. You can reassure her that you like her (if that's true), but you don't have to pity her.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-roommate-s-drinking-problem", "topics": "Social Relationships,Addiction,Substance Abuse,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Is screaming and cussing at your child considered emotional abuse? My dad is always, and I mean always, cussing and screaming at me for no reason at all. He makes me feel stupid. He also compares me to my other siblings in a negative way and demeans me. Is this abuse?\nTherapist: Yes, screaming and cussing at your child is considered abuse. Here are two points I suggest you consider for your situation. Schedule it for sometime in the near future from your request. This way he has time to consider his points of view on his relationship to you. Even if he does no thinking about your relationship at all, he will not feel pressured by the surprise of suddenly being expected to talk about a topic he may prefer to prepare himself. When a parent demeans and mistreats a child, the child is affected in a negative way.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-screaming-and-cussing-at-your-child-considered-emotional-abuse", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory,Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I feel completely alone in my marriage. I have been married for 11 years. Within the past 2 years we have drifted far apart. We coexist together but there is very little personal interest in each other. I often feel that my husband has \"friends\" at work that he is more emotional invested in than me. I feel very alone and just uncared for.  Is there anything I can do to feel reconnected?\nTherapist: I'm sorry for how you're feeling in your marriage lately. Are you and your husband able to talk directly about your feelings? The way two people connect is usually by talking with each other to understand what each one cares about and thinks. Your current emotional suffering is the natural result of being married to someone who shows no interest in doing this. Also a question for the future is to understand what the value of your marriage is to you besides having a connection to your husband.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-completely-alone-in-my-marriage", "topics": "Marriage,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my husband after a suicide attempt? After he got home from the hospital he was angry, then for a time wonderful.  Now he is depressed and hopeless again.\nTherapist: It seems like you are very receptive of your husband\u2019s emotions and want to support him trough this time. First, it is important to have a safety plan in place, which includes removing harming objects from the home, knowing who to call if there\u2019s a new attempt (either 9-1-1, or nearby treatment center), have a professional expert who monitors you and your husband\u2019s progress, either a Counselor or mental health provider could help you manage negative feelings and identify ways to handle triggering situations. \u00bfC\u00f3mo puedo ayudar a mi esposo despu\u00e9s de un intento de suicidio?Despu\u00e9s de que el llego a casa del hospital estaba enojado, luego por un tiempo maravilloso.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-husband-after-a-suicide-attempt", "topics": "Marriage,Depression,Self-harm"}, {"text": "User: My girlfriend is always accusing me of cheating on her when I haven't. Over a year ago I had a female friend. She turned out to be kind of crazy so I decided to stop talking to her.  When she would call me I wouldn't answer the phone. This made my girlfriend really suspicious. She would ask me why I wouldn't ever answer that phone number. I told my girlfriend that I don't want to be friends with that other woman, but I don't think she believes me. How can I get my girlfriend to understand?\nTherapist: Open and honest communication can go a long way in situations like yours. Your girlfriend may be suspicious if you don't give her enough information. Ask for her suggestions as to how to handle this female friend. Ask for your girlfriend for help in getting the female friend to understand that you are not interested in continuing the friendship. If you are honest with your friend, your girlfriend will probably feel like you are being honest with her.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-girlfriend-is-always-accusing-me-of-cheating-on-her-when-i-haven-t", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm worried about my new job. I just took a job that requires me to travel far away from home. My family and I really need this job.  People keep telling me I have \"anxiety\" and I'm terrified of having an anxiety attack on the road. This is all new to me. What can I do?\nTherapist: There are lots of things you can do, but first: Congratulations on your new job! First, make sure that your seating arrangement in your car is comfortable. Alternatively, listening to books can be a great way to spend the time, improve your mood, and find inspiration. If the drive normally takes you 30 minutes, plan on 45 (or if it's 45 minutes, plan on an hour). Consider jotting your feelings down in a journal.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-about-my-new-job", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: I feel completely alone in my marriage. I have been married for 11 years. Within the past 2 years we have drifted far apart. We coexist together but there is very little personal interest in each other. I often feel that my husband has \"friends\" at work that he is more emotional invested in than me. I feel very alone and just uncared for.  Is there anything I can do to feel reconnected?\nTherapist: Piggybacking on the other respondent's suggestions, I also agree that most couples could use more frequent and more bonding communication in their relationships, and this is a GREAT place to get the ball rolling towards reconnecting. Seems like you've encountered this in your own relationship...where he appears to be neglecting your need for emotional connection with him. Ask him what he thinks he needs in a marriage. If he can give you a list, you'll have a blueprint for getting him to reconnect with you and it opens the door for you to offer him little suggestions as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-completely-alone-in-my-marriage", "topics": "Marriage,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I'm worried about my new job. I just took a job that requires me to travel far away from home. My family and I really need this job.  People keep telling me I have \"anxiety\" and I'm terrified of having an anxiety attack on the road. This is all new to me. What can I do?\nTherapist: Anxiety often occurs when big or unexpected changes come to our lives, like having new jobs, relocating, or assuming new roles. But if you are experiencing panic attacks, or suffer them at some point, you could learn how to reduce them either with therapy or medication. Si realmente estas pasando por un periodo de ansiedad, no es necesario que vayas a experimentar ataques de p\u00e1nico.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-about-my-new-job", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: I over endulge when I drink alcohol and feel extremely guilty about it the next day. I'm a female in my mid 20s.  Lately I tend to over drink and I've become a very angry drunk.   In the past, I have even cheated on my boyfriend while I was under the influence of alcohol.   But now, even if I don't do anything wrong and don't embarrass myself, I still feel really guilty after a night of drinking. I don't understand why I'm feeling this way. Does this mean I have a problem?\nTherapist: Usually when someone asks if they have a problem, they believe they do have a problem!The first step is to understand your own theory and definition as to what problem you feel you have. Some possibilities are feeling unhappy in the relationship to your boyfriend, not having enough discussion between the two of you, not feeling cared about by your boyfriend, not liking your boyfriend. Ask yourself what it is you feel guilty of doing?The guilt may point you in a good direction if it is your sense of self-esteem telling you to find better ways of managing your life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-over-endulge-when-i-drink-alcohol-and-feel-extremely-guilty-about-it-the-next-day", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why can't I let myself trust my partner? I've been with my partner for 4 years. She's given me no reason not to trust her. But lately I've been overreacting a lot when she's just doing normal things. I think it's triggering my bad past relationships.  How can I get rid of these insecurities and be more trusting with her?\nTherapist: You're not overreacting and instead are genuinely sensing that something feels unsettled within your girlfriend. You are overreacting because you have difficulty accepting how safe and loving your relationship is with this person. The only way to find out is to start conversations with your girlfriend on how you feel. This will allow new light to open an answer as to the truth. Once you know what truly is going on between the two of you, your self-trust naturally will grow stronger. Self-trust will give you an accurate read of what and whom you are able to safely trust.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-let-myself-trust-my-partner", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I have a better sex life when I don't like sex? My husband and I have been married for seven years, and in that time, we have only had sex four or five times. Others have told me that most men would have left me by now. Honestly, I think I have a low sex drive or neither one of us actually knows what we are doing. I want to be better connected with my husband.\nTherapist: There are many different ways that can be approached in your situation.1. I would recommend a complete medical examination including blood test. i would want to know if there are any medical issues in your low sex drive.2. Is he resentful, accepting, demanding or neutral?3. has this had an affect on your current issue?4.Has there been problems in your past with abuse of any kind?5. All of these areas need to be explored before any treatment goals can be established. You need to talk with a professional counselor to explore how to better connect with your spouse.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-better-sex-life-when-i-don-t-like-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I feel completely alone in my marriage. I have been married for 11 years. Within the past 2 years we have drifted far apart. We coexist together but there is very little personal interest in each other. I often feel that my husband has \"friends\" at work that he is more emotional invested in than me. I feel very alone and just uncared for.  Is there anything I can do to feel reconnected?\nTherapist: I can think of several things that may help you to reconnect. Also, you may discover that you are on two different pages about things on which you thought you understood what each other felt, wanted, or desired. Can he do the same for you?You could also try doing two things every day that would be appreciated by your partner without either of you having to ask for it. Best wishes in your quest for connection!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-completely-alone-in-my-marriage", "topics": "Marriage,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I think I empathize too much. I empathize so much, even with characters on tv or in video games, that I actually feel physical pain. This has made life difficult to say the least.  I believe I have an actually case of something called hyper empathy disorder. But since it's such a new disorder I can't find any information about it. Could this be what is going on with me?\nTherapist: It sounds like this would be difficult at times, particularly if you feel misunderstood. We also have different sections of our brain that become active when different things happen. There is a part of our brain where a lot of our emotions originate that is also designed to protect us when we are going through things that have been physically or emotionally painful in the past, and when that part of the brain is sometimes overactive (perceiving threat when there is no actual threat at the time), sometimes anxiety can develop. Not everything listed here applies to you. This does not mean that there is something majorly wrong with your brain.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-think-i-empathize-too-much", "topics": "Diagnosis"}, {"text": "User: How do you overcome an embarrassing mistake and forgive yourself? I am becoming a Water Safety Instructor but I didn't have enough for a proper swimsuit. I was told by a boy in class that my top was displaying everything. I was very embarrassed.\nTherapist: Sometimes we make ourselves feel worse with our own thoughts about things we can't change. So people who are holding onto embarrassment and self-blame often have thoughts like, \"How could I do that?\", \" Now people saw things I did not want them to see!\" If we tune in more, we might notice we are thinking that this is terrible, horrible, and that we cannot deal with it. People have all kinds of thoughts about other people, and it does not have to be a major problem.\"", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-overcome-an-embarrassing-mistake-and-forgive-yourself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: What's going on with these mood swings? I'm a teenager and I get these really intense mood swings.   My mood will be really high and I'll think of something that I want to do. When I start to make it happen I get irritated by other people if they intervene. Then if the thing I wanted to do doesn't work out, I have these tendencies to blame other people for it not working out.   Can you explain what's going on?\nTherapist: Teenagers are prone to mood swings due to developmental and hormonal changes that are rapidly and intensely occurring in your body and mind - so some of this happens to many people in your stage of development. You've taken the first and very important step in regulating your moods by just identifying that you are having these intense changes instead of being completely submerged in them and unaware! Since you are aware of blaming others for things not working out, you can proactively make a personal commitment to taking ownership or personal responsibility by just thinking about it and practicing thoughts such as \"I am responsible for my efforts\" and \"Blame is not helpful for anyone\" and other thoughts that you believe and can repeat related to this insight.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-s-going-on-with-these-mood-swings", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What are the best ways to reduce anxiety? I have anxieties about everyday stressors, i.e. finances, work, relationships, kids, and maintaining a household.\nTherapist: Since it is clear that people react differently to the same\u00a0stressors, we know that the stressors are not causing the anxiety, our thoughts about the stressors are. Often, cognitive distortions are the problem. Some common cognitive distortions include catastrophizing (predicting the worst), future telling, black and white thinking (if it's not perfect, it's terrible), mind-reading (I just know he is angry at me) and can't-standitis (I can't stand this situation). Kind of like not stopping the waves but learning to surf instead (Jon Kabat-Zinn).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-are-the-best-ways-to-reduce-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Stress"}, {"text": "User: What's wrong with me for going to summer school? It's the way my mom said I was worth nothing, stupid, no point of being in school. I'm \"lazy little fat.\"\nTherapist: There is nothing wrong with going to summer school.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-s-wrong-with-me-for-going-to-summer-school", "topics": "Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I think I empathize too much. I empathize so much, even with characters on tv or in video games, that I actually feel physical pain. This has made life difficult to say the least.  I believe I have an actually case of something called hyper empathy disorder. But since it's such a new disorder I can't find any information about it. Could this be what is going on with me?\nTherapist: Sometimes it's helps to have a name for a problem - it can make you feel less alone as in, \"oh there's a name for this and other people have this experience too.\" You might want to try imagining that you have a volume dial on your empathy (just like the volume dial or button on the tv) that you can gently turn down to the point where you still feel what's going on but it's not so \"loud\". Just like on an airplane where they tell you to put on your own oxygen mask first before helping anyone else, your empathy will most likely not really help others if you allow yourself to be depleted.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-think-i-empathize-too-much", "topics": "Diagnosis"}, {"text": "User: Why can't I let myself trust my partner? I've been with my partner for 4 years. She's given me no reason not to trust her. But lately I've been overreacting a lot when she's just doing normal things. I think it's triggering my bad past relationships.  How can I get rid of these insecurities and be more trusting with her?\nTherapist: What's most important is that you recognize that what you've been doing is off base - that what you've been feeling is \"overreacting,\" that you have \"insecurities,\" and you suspect your actions and reactions are connected to your own past and not to the current situation or to your partner. That said, you sound as if you are really ready to start some therapy to work on your own personal growth... not because there is something \"wrong\" with you, but because you're ready to learn more about yourself and make some creative changes in your behavior.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-let-myself-trust-my-partner", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What are the best ways to reduce anxiety? I have anxieties about everyday stressors, i.e. finances, work, relationships, kids, and maintaining a household.\nTherapist: What are the best ways to reduce anxiety?I have anxieties about everyday stressors, i.e. finances, work, relationships, kids, and maintaining a household. You can also learn coping strategies to manage the problem or give up the desire to control it\u00a0if needed.\u00b7 Organiza las actividades, gastos y tareas por prioridad. Tambi\u00e9n puedes aprender a manejar la fuente de ansiedad, resolver el problema, o aceptar que no lo puedes controlar, si ese fuera el caso. \u00b7", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-are-the-best-ways-to-reduce-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Stress"}, {"text": "User: I want to make my own decisions. I have a mother who is still running my life even though I'm almost 30 years old. I want to move out and live my own life, but it feels like as long as I do what my mom wants our relationship is okay. It's never okay if I don't do what she wants.   I don't know how to start making my own decisions and not worry about  whether it's right in her eyes.  Would it help for me to talk to someone about this?\nTherapist: Having someone who's outside the situation and, even more so, with knowledge and experience in human behavior and relationship dynamics such as a counselor can do wonders in helping us feel less alone in frustrating situations like the one you're currently stuck in with your mother. In a healthy parent-child dynamic, there comes a normal developmental shift when, as the child reaches each new stage of maturity and responsibility, the parent backs off to provide a more supportive role instead of directive role. Like many parents, she may feel your behavior and choices is a direct reflection of her. And as far as we know, it's not a dress rehearsal.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-make-my-own-decisions", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I want to make my own decisions. I have a mother who is still running my life even though I'm almost 30 years old. I want to move out and live my own life, but it feels like as long as I do what my mom wants our relationship is okay. It's never okay if I don't do what she wants.   I don't know how to start making my own decisions and not worry about  whether it's right in her eyes.  Would it help for me to talk to someone about this?\nTherapist: If the only way the relationship you have with your mother feels \"okay\" is when she is the only one who makes decisions concerning your life, then this only seems ok. In fact it is not okay for one person to be the authority for another person unless the one for whom this is being done, does not have their own ability to think for themselves. You'll need practice until you feel comfortable. Unless, if you've been thinking through decisions you'd like to make and the idea of your mother's anger is the only point which stopped you, then you may almost instantly start living in a liberated way of running your own life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-make-my-own-decisions", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I am very self conscious about my body. On the first day of school I wore a bra that was too big so that it would look like I had bigger boobs.  I did that the whole school year and my parents never found out. But now I can never hang out with my friends at my house or invite them over because it would be around my parents and my friends would see there is nothing there on my chest.   How do I fix this?\nTherapist: Wear baggy clothes to disguise the problem and if you do this for a long enough time, then your friends may forget what size boobs you have. Can you tell your parents what you wrote here? If yes, then maybe they will be empathetic and this always helps. They may also agree to not make any comments about your boobs when you wear the bigger bra around your friends when they visit you at home. Also, its possible your friends already have questioned why you wore a bigger bra than your boobs.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-very-self-conscious-about-my-body", "topics": "Self-esteem,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why can't I change? I know I'm ruining my life with a lot of the decisions I make.  I consistently tell myself I need to make some serious changes in my life, but I just can't seem to even though I really want to. Why can't I force myself to change?\nTherapist: In general the reason people aren't able to change is because the person feels a sense of fear to change. What the roots are of this fear are usually easiest to identify by talking with someone whom you trust and feel safe to talk about your inner thoughts and emotions. Change sometimes feels much scarier and is more complex than simple compared with whatever you would like to change.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-change", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: What are the best ways to reduce anxiety? I have anxieties about everyday stressors, i.e. finances, work, relationships, kids, and maintaining a household.\nTherapist: List from top to bottom which one gives you the greatest anxiety and ask the question how come? From there, we can figure out the underlying factors of your anxiety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-are-the-best-ways-to-reduce-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Stress"}, {"text": "User: Should I be upset that my husband may have lied to me again? I\u2019m trying to make marriage work after a split. Before our split, he lied a lot and broke every promise to me. I don't think he cheated. Last month, I asked what women work with him, so he told me. Yesterday, I found out about a girl that he said he forgot about. Should I be upset?\nTherapist: Yes because he broke a boundary of yours that he knew was important to you. The question that should be asked is are you able to go forward with your husband with his behaviors not changing for the better in regards to your feelings and emotions?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-be-upset-that-my-husband-may-have-lied-to-me-again", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my husband after a suicide attempt? After he got home from the hospital he was angry, then for a time wonderful.  Now he is depressed and hopeless again.\nTherapist: This must be so difficult for both of you. Watching someone you love suffer so profoundly can bring up lots of difficult feelings. Without knowing what you are already doing, I have a few thoughts to share with you. As much as you are able, make space in your relationship for him to talk about what he is experiencing. If he wants to talk, try to listen without judgement and without trying to talk him out of his feelings. Focus on validating his feelings and just sitting with him in his pain.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-husband-after-a-suicide-attempt", "topics": "Marriage,Depression,Self-harm"}, {"text": "User: My girlfriend can't stand it when I touch her. My girlfriend was abused as a child. Now, if I hug or touch her in any kind of way she says she feels as if she is being abused as a child. What might be going on?\nTherapist: I think it's wonderful that you are approaching this with openness and curiosity. The reaction you are describing is extremely common in survivors of abuse. What you said is insightful...when you touch her \"she feels as if she is being abused as a child.\" Re-experiencing or\u00a0reliving\u00a0traumatic experiences is a key symptom of PTSD.If you are seeking to better understand what is going on for her, I would highly recommend Bessel van der Kolk's book\u00a0the Body Keeps the Score.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-girlfriend-can-t-stand-it-when-i-touch-her", "topics": "Intimacy,Human Sexuality,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I\u2019m watching my life from a window? I never feel like myself. I can\u2019t even think straight anymore. I start stuttering and I can\u2019t remember anything. I always get nervous and usually talk myself down but recently end up fighting with, what feels like, someone else. I don\u2019t know why I feel this way, but I hate it.\nTherapist: Hello,I am wondering if you might be experiencing some form of dissociation. People who dissociate might feel like the world around them is unreal and unfamiliar, or that they are not really in their bodies and that they are observing themselves from outside of their bodies. Dissociation can also mean that there are parts of you that have \"split off\" and sometimes parts are can feel like they are at odds with each other or are locked in conflict. Sometimes dissociation happens after someone experiences a trauma. On my website I have information specific to dissociation that might be helpful to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-m-watching-my-life-from-a-window", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can you get back to my old self? I no longer carry expressions on my face, and my emotions are decreasing the more I have fights with my fianc\u00e9e.\nTherapist: Sometimes repressing anger can lead to depression and block all kinds of other emotions too. I would wonder about your experience with anger and if you've ever been discouraged from expressing anger. I would also wonder if you feel like you have space to express yourself in your relationship or if you feel like you really aren't being heard. It's hard to feel cared for and connected to someone else when you don't feel accepted by them.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-you-get-back-to-my-old-self", "topics": "Depression,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle my fianc\u00e9e always telling me how bad of a job I'm doing in making them happy? My fianc\u00e9e is always letting me know how I am a horrible/evil person, or I just don\u2019t care enough when it\u2019s about her feeling or when she is having an off day.\nTherapist: I don't know much about the dynamics of your relationship, but I want to say that you cannot possibly be responsible for anyone else's happiness. If you are interested in a good read on this topic, I highly recommend The Four Agreements by Don Miguel Ruiz.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-my-fianc-e-always-telling-me-how-bad-of-a-job-i-m-doing-in-making-them-happy", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: My wife outed me to her sister. What should I do when we see each other?\nTherapist: Nobody deserves to be outed without their permission. I would encourage you to get in touch with someone who is supportive and accepting and plan to touch base with them after you see your wife's sister. You can also plan to take some time for self care after you see her. For example, if you enjoy bike rides, plan on taking a bike ride afterward. Plan to do something that feels nurturing and caring.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-wife-outed-me-to-her-sister", "topics": "Social Relationships,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Why don't I feel normal? I don't feel like myself anymore. For example, I could walk up an entire flight of stairs before realizing that my legs are moving. I feel like I\u2019m watching my life be lived by someone else.\nTherapist: You may be experiencing a form of dissociation called depersonalization. People with this type of dissociation may feel disconnected from their bodies, feel that they are watching their bodies from a distance, or may not recognize their image in the mirror. Dissociation sometimes occurs after someone experiences something traumatic. I would suggest working with a therapist who specializes in dissociative disorders as dissociation does not typically resolve on its own. On my website, I have some information specific to dissociation that you may find helpful.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-don-t-i-feel-normal", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with my daughter's rebellious behavior? She's a teenager, and for the last two years, she's lived with her older brother. She's angry because she wants to come live with me, but my current living situation is not the best for her. She refuses to see any reason. She's being disrespectful. Her sexual curiosity is waking up.\nTherapist: Since you are not currently living together, one way to do this would be to plan a date in which she gets to decide what you do together. Give her time to think about what she wants to do. As long as the activity is safe and affordable, try to do it, even if it's not your thing. While you are with her, turn off the phone and give her your undivided attention. The goal would be just for you to enjoy each other and connect.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-my-daughter-s-rebellious-behavior", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How do you overcome an embarrassing mistake and forgive yourself? I am becoming a Water Safety Instructor but I didn't have enough for a proper swimsuit. I was told by a boy in class that my top was displaying everything. I was very embarrassed.\nTherapist: I also want to note that we, as a society, are especially judgemental about how women dress and present themselves. I am sorry that this boy said something insensitive. There is nothing shameful about your body and it was not your intention to \"display everything.\" As women we are expected to be sexy in some situations and demure in others. Men don't have the same range of societal expectations to navigate.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-overcome-an-embarrassing-mistake-and-forgive-yourself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Why am I so nervous talking to people? Whether it's to a guy or girl, I always feel insecure talking, and I am afraid of embarrassing myself and not being good enough. Even when I am walking, I worry about my appearance and facial expression and such.\nTherapist: I want to add that one way therapy can help with social anxiety is to give you a corrective experience. Each week, you sit across from someone who genuinely cares about you, who doesn't judge you, and who you can voice your concerns to. Over time, you show them more and more of yourself, and as they get to know you, they still care about you, they still don't judge you, and they still think you are amazing.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-so-nervous-talking-to-people", "topics": "Self-esteem,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over rape trauma syndrome? I was kidnapped at fourteen and raped at gunpoint. The guy got six months. When the same thing happened with two \"friends\" at nineteen, I didn't even report it.\nTherapist: Wow, I'm so sorry that this has happened to you. Please find a therapist who specializes in working with PTSD. Brainspotting, Internal Family Systems Therapy, and Somatic Experiencing are all highly effective therapies for complex interpersonal trauma. If you are interested in reading about trauma from a compassionate and scientific perspective I highly recommend Bessel van der Kolk's The Body Keeps the Score.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-rape-trauma-syndrome", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How do I move on from almost being raped? At a friend's house, we had some drinks and watched some television. He got up and went to bed. I felt sick. He came out to see if I was okay, and I said no. I said I wanted to go home, and he told me to come lay down. As I laid down on the bed, he started touching me. A friend called me, then I able to leave.\nTherapist: I am so sorry that this happened to you and am so glad that you were able to get away. I would highly recommend that you find a therapist who specializes in treating trauma in order to help you to heal from your ordeal.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-move-on-from-almost-being-raped", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over a fear of pain during sex? My boyfriend and I have a terrible sex life after three years of dating, and I don't know what to do. I have this lingering fear of pain during sex after having two partners previously who weren't careful. How can I stop projecting this onto my current boyfriend?\nTherapist: Without knowing much about your situation, I would encourage you to seek out either a sex therapist who is trauma-informed or a trauma therapist who has knowledge about sexual concerns. Even consensual sex can be experienced as an intrusion if a partner was not careful or insensitive to your pain. It would be normal to have some difficulties with sex after such an incident.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-a-fear-of-pain-during-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Trauma,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with all of my disorders? I have attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder, anxiety, anger, and memory problems. I can't work. I have no income. I'm on medicine, but I feel worthless. I want to be normal.\nTherapist: I am so sorry to hear that you are struggling. It sounds like you've had a traumatic experience that has impacted your life in many ways. Without knowing much about your history, I wonder if the trauma you suffered has lead to the anxiety, anger, and memory problems you are dealing with, in addition to PTSD. I would encourage you to look for a trauma therapist who offers a sliding scale or pro bono services. There may also be community mental health services in your area that offer free therapy if you are eligible for grant.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-all-of-my-disorders", "topics": "Trauma,Stress,Anxiety,Anger Management"}, {"text": "User: How do I let go of the abuse my dad showed me? My dad beat and mentally abused me so badly that I can't function properly. Letting go of the past is important to moving on and getting better, but I\u2019m terrified to get better because I don't even know who I am without the trauma. I've never gotten to be myself. I don't even know who I am.\nTherapist: I am so sorry to hear that you are struggling. Getting to know yourself after a trauma (especially at the hands of a caregiver) and learning to trust yourself can feel terrifying. I would encourage you to seek out a trauma therapist who can work with you slowly and at your pace. Please seek out the support of a therapist who sees that in you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-let-go-of-the-abuse-my-dad-showed-me", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with posttraumatic stress disorder and its triggers? I am a survivor of multiple sexual abuse/rape experiences. Triggers are having an effect on my daily life and my sexual relationship with my partner. I'm trying to learn to cope with them.\nTherapist: I encourage you to seek out and work with a therapist who specializes in treating complex trauma. Somatic Experiencing, Brainspotting, and Internal Family Systems Therapy are all highly effective treatments for people dealing with complex trauma. If you are interested in reading a book that is supportive and compassionate, Bessel van der Kolk's The Body Keeps the Score is a wonderful book that discusses treatment options in depth.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-and-its-triggers", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with losing a child? nan\nTherapist: As you already know, there is no easy answer. Over time, I think we learn to live with the pain from such a loss, but it never goes away. I would encourage you to seek out a grief support group or a therapist who specializes in grief and loss. I will just add that one thing that you can do is to create something meaningful from this profound experience. This might mean connecting with others who are mourning, or creating beautiful in your child's memory. Of course, the best ideas will come from you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-losing-a-child", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel worthless and tired? I always feel like I'm doing something wrong. Everything I do is crappy. I want to cry all the time. I can't eat or sleep.\nTherapist: You are describing some of the most common symptoms of depression: low self esteem, difficulty sleeping, changes in appetite, sad mood, feelings of hopeless and feelings of worthlessness. It would be a sign that I have lost pleasure or interest in the activity that I typically enjoy most . I'll ask you to think of one activity which you really really enjoy. The good news is that there are many effective, available treatment if you are indeed in a depression or simply, you want to modify/decrease your depressive symptoms i.e., you want to stop feeling so tired and so worthless. I hope you find this information helpful.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-worthless-and-tired", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Should I be upset that my husband may have lied to me again? I\u2019m trying to make marriage work after a split. Before our split, he lied a lot and broke every promise to me. I don't think he cheated. Last month, I asked what women work with him, so he told me. Yesterday, I found out about a girl that he said he forgot about. Should I be upset?\nTherapist: Let's look at your question and break it down. As a first reflection, it implies that there is a right and a wrong way to feel, in this case, feel upset. If you are feeling upset or if you are feeling another emotion : insert worried, ambivalent, scared, angry, insecure, confused that is likely reasonable if the relationship has undergone some breaks in trust followed by distance (seperation). If you want to discuss the impact of your feelings on you or on your marriage, I suggest you consult with a mental health professional with expertise in couple therapy/ relationship issues. I hope you find this information helpful.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/should-i-be-upset-that-my-husband-may-have-lied-to-me-again", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I feel completely alone in my marriage. I have been married for 11 years. Within the past 2 years we have drifted far apart. We coexist together but there is very little personal interest in each other. I often feel that my husband has \"friends\" at work that he is more emotional invested in than me. I feel very alone and just uncared for.  Is there anything I can do to feel reconnected?\nTherapist: What you are describing is something I often refer to as \"living with your roommate\" phenomenon. This is the idea that you feel like you are living with a roommate and no your partner or spouse . The emotional distance often makes us wonder: am I important to the other? If this is too frightening I.e., to address the lack of connection between you and your spouse. a fist meeting with a couple therapist can likely help unpack what the possible solutions for your couple.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-completely-alone-in-my-marriage", "topics": "Marriage,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I feel completely alone in my marriage. I have been married for 11 years. Within the past 2 years we have drifted far apart. We coexist together but there is very little personal interest in each other. I often feel that my husband has \"friends\" at work that he is more emotional invested in than me. I feel very alone and just uncared for.  Is there anything I can do to feel reconnected?\nTherapist: Your question highlights your pain very clearly. My mind immediately goes to a question for you: What happens when you are feeling alone and uncared for? The book \"Hold Me Tight: 7 Conversations for a LIfetime of Love\" by Sue Johnson is a self-help book based on Emotionally Focused Therapy (the most scientifically validated couples therapy that currently exists), and has been helpful to many couples that I see. It's telling you what you are missing and what you want.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-completely-alone-in-my-marriage", "topics": "Marriage,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: I'm worried about my new job. I just took a job that requires me to travel far away from home. My family and I really need this job.  People keep telling me I have \"anxiety\" and I'm terrified of having an anxiety attack on the road. This is all new to me. What can I do?\nTherapist: Please don't be anxious about being anxious. If you feel anxiety coming over you, then pull off the road to a safe place. Concentrate on centering yourself and to breath slowly. The anxiety should pass in about twenty minutes. If it does not pass, then continue calming yourself until you feel safe enough to drive to your hotel. You can always explain to your supervisor that you were taking care of a medical problem, because anxiety is a medical problem.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-about-my-new-job", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: How do I cope with posttraumatic stress disorder and its triggers? I am a survivor of multiple sexual abuse/rape experiences. Triggers are having an effect on my daily life and my sexual relationship with my partner. I'm trying to learn to cope with them.\nTherapist: I'm glad you're willing to keep optimistic about life improving and offering better relationships than some of the ones in which you greatly suffered. One suggestion is to develop patience with yourself and the process of regaining your willingness to trust other people. Sexual intimacy engages all of who we truly are. Being cautious as to who and how much you allow someone into your life, is natural for anyone recovering from trauma. Allow yourself to withdraw when situations feel dangerous. Be attentive and cooperate with your own sense of readiness to engage in conversation, discussions and sex with your partner.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-cope-with-posttraumatic-stress-disorder-and-its-triggers", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my husband after a suicide attempt? After he got home from the hospital he was angry, then for a time wonderful.  Now he is depressed and hopeless again.\nTherapist: Since as husband and wife your lives are closely joined, how your husband feels greatly influences the way you feel. Give yourself some time to concentrate on how you've been affected by your husband's suicide attempt. Even if you decide against immediately telling him how you're feeling, knowing this about yourself will guide how and the topics you bring up with him. Is your husband talking easily with you?Do you have some ideas as to what is creating his feeling of hopelessness?The ideal approach would be if the two of you are able to discuss what bothers him and what bothers you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-husband-after-a-suicide-attempt", "topics": "Marriage,Depression,Self-harm"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to dislike one child? I have three children. The oldest is nine and not my biological child. The middle child is three and the youngest is one. I have a great relationship with the oldest two children but I haven't developed the same level of attatchment to the youngest child. I rarely want her around and look forward to her nap times. Is this normal?\nTherapist: Congrats on being honest about the way you feel!Many people state having a favorite child so the reverse would also be possible, of having a least favorite child. Try to understand your own reasons for not liking your youngest child as much as the others. One point to consider is whether it is the child' personality or the way they interact with you which gives you the feeling of not liking this child as much as the others, or does the reason have more to do with younger children requiring more care?Also, do you generally prefer older kids to younger ones? Continue to give as much as possible to your youngest child.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-dislike-one-child", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I want help with how to deal with my abused daughter. She refuses to talk to me and told my mom (her grand mother) that she is remembering things from the past. I don't know what to do. My daughter blames me and swears she hates me.  My parents say I should just let my daughter live with her dad, but I don't see how I could fix things if I only see her every other weekend. What should I do?\nTherapist: Sorry to hear about your high degree of stress. How old is your daughter?Who abused yours daughter?The answers make a difference to your decision. Obviously if the father was the abuser, then unless your ex demonstrates to you and you believe, he will not abuse her, your daughter should stay with you. What does your daughter tell you she wants?Her wishes must be considered too. Sometimes being apart helps this process because the two people each have time to reflect more deeply on what they value about the other.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-help-with-how-to-deal-with-my-abused-daughter", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: My girlfriend is always accusing me of cheating on her when I haven't. Over a year ago I had a female friend. She turned out to be kind of crazy so I decided to stop talking to her.  When she would call me I wouldn't answer the phone. This made my girlfriend really suspicious. She would ask me why I wouldn't ever answer that phone number. I told my girlfriend that I don't want to be friends with that other woman, but I don't think she believes me. How can I get my girlfriend to understand?\nTherapist: Do you know why your girlfriend doesn't believe you?It is strange that your girlfriend prefers you to take the phone call of another woman. Have you blocked the unwelcome phone calls?Has your girlfriend said she doesn't believe you or is this your interpretation?Find out the answer and then ask your girlfriend to tell you her reasons behind her thoughts. It is much easier to help someone understand a situation if the person is engaged in a conversation. Whether or not she understands is up to her. All you can be responsible to do is to offer your explanation, which sounds like you've already substantially offered.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-girlfriend-is-always-accusing-me-of-cheating-on-her-when-i-haven-t", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I feel completely alone in my marriage. I have been married for 11 years. Within the past 2 years we have drifted far apart. We coexist together but there is very little personal interest in each other. I often feel that my husband has \"friends\" at work that he is more emotional invested in than me. I feel very alone and just uncared for.  Is there anything I can do to feel reconnected?\nTherapist: I'm sure you've tried to talk to your husband, but if not, could you? Have a conversation with him about him and his life, his work, etc. See if he relaxes and opens up to you, even a little bit. Don't try to have a heavy conversation or even unburden yourself to him during this first conversation - just try to be light-hearted and focus on hearing him. It's the first step towards getting your needs met too, and ending any emotional standoff that might have come about between you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-completely-alone-in-my-marriage", "topics": "Marriage,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my husband back? My husband and I are separated and he doesn't even want to talk to me.   He says he doesn't love me anymore, but I would do anything to get him back. Is there any hope?\nTherapist: However, you knew I would say that, there is a lot work ahead of you. You need to see someone to talk things out. Get some space between you and your husband. Do some deep searching as to why he left and what part you had to cause the split. You can't change him but you are in control of your own change. With the help of a professional counselor you can get help and direction where you need to change.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-husband-back", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How can I have a better sex life when I don't like sex? My husband and I have been married for seven years, and in that time, we have only had sex four or five times. Others have told me that most men would have left me by now. Honestly, I think I have a low sex drive or neither one of us actually knows what we are doing. I want to be better connected with my husband.\nTherapist: It's encouraging that you say you want \"to be better connected with [your] husband,\" and since he hasn't left you, he must care about you and the relationship more than he does about just having sex. For women that can sometimes be more complicated. A woman who loves sex most likely also loves her body, knows what pleasures her, and feels confident asking for what she wants. Self-pleasuring can be a way for you to discover more about your sexuality, and a classic resource is Betty Dodson's book Sex for One: The Joy of Selfloving. Shop around and be sure you find someone who can help you and your husband get better connected on all levels.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-better-sex-life-when-i-don-t-like-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is there anything I can do about my therapist blocking my psychiatric services? I had a dispute with my therapist regarding an appointment cancellation. Now, she is blocking me from seeing other psychologists at the same clinic (which takes my insurance), which is also where I get my psychiatric services. There is a strict 48 hour cancellation policy, and my appointments are at 3:00 on Tuesday. I called to cancel at 4:30 the previous Friday. I was late, so we contacted my doctor to tell her that I would be out of town. She said I could do a phone in session. The thing is we do double sessions.\nTherapist: My recommendation would be to try to talk to your therapist about this \u00a0from your description, it sounds like you have a legitimate explanation for missing your scheduled session. Maybe if you could explain that to her she would be willing to work with you. If she is not willing to consider your explanation and if she is not willing to continue working with you, she still has an ethical obligation to provide you with referral resources to another therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-there-anything-i-can-do-about-my-therapist-blocking-my-psychiatric-services", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is in the hospital. They won\u2019t tell me what\u2019s wrong and if or when he\u2019s coming back. nan\nTherapist: I know it can be really tough when a loved one is in the hospital and you aren't being told what is going on. In general, both Federal and State confidentiality laws prohibit health care providers from giving out private information about patients to non-family members. Unfortunately, you will probably just have to wait until he is released (or until you can visit him) to find out from him what is going on.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-in-the-hospital-they-won-t-tell-me-what-s-wrong-and-if-or-when-he-s-coming-back", "topics": "Legal & Regulatory"}, {"text": "User: I have difficulty with communication. I am a really shy person. I'm currently in a graduate program which requires lots of presentations, but they always make me feel stressed out and less confident. How can I get more confident?\nTherapist: I can offer you hypnosis for confidence in presentations, via Skype, if you're in Cali.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-difficulty-with-communication", "topics": "Anxiety,Stress"}, {"text": "User: I have difficulty with communication. I am a really shy person. I'm currently in a graduate program which requires lots of presentations, but they always make me feel stressed out and less confident. How can I get more confident?\nTherapist: A good way to start is the language or \"self talk\" that is happening inside your mind. Looking at your question, when it is said that the presentations \"make me feel stress\" you are giving the responsibility of the stress to the presentations and taking that away from your self. What language can you change in your self talk? That sounds a lot different than \"I studied my butt off and if I practice speaking out loud, I can ace this presentation!\" Although this is a short answer, I do believe that counseling will help you overcome these stressful feelings and bring out your inner confidence.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-difficulty-with-communication", "topics": "Anxiety,Stress"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a person to stop feeling emotions? I was raped a couple months ago, Since then, along with other unfortunately events that have occurred, I have been having trouble feeling emotions. It's almost as if I'm a sociopath lacking any feeling. What can I do to change this?\nTherapist: I am so sorry to hear about what happened to you! What you are describing is being in a state of shock. You haven't suddenly become a sociopath - this is a normal reaction to an event that is completely overwhelming. There are most likely too many feelings to feel right now, so your body in its wisdom is shutting them down. You absolutely can recover, and it would be really important to get some trauma counseling with a counselor who feels safe for you to talk with. This is not the kind of situation to try and handle totally on your own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-person-to-stop-feeling-emotions", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I find myself again? I just don't know what I want in life anymore. I'm can't figure out what it is that is keeping me distracted and unfocused. I can't put things into perspective at all. I'm just stuck, and I'm disappointed with my lack of accomplishments.\nTherapist: Check this blog out: \u00a0Four-ways-add-self-esteem-friends-listHope you find a few nuggets of helpfulness in this.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-find-myself-again", "topics": "Self-esteem,Depression"}, {"text": "User: I hate the way I look. I hate everything I see in the mirror. I don't like being in pictures and always scribble out my face.  It's stressing me out. I don't trust my parents enough to tell them and I don't know what to do.\nTherapist: Check out my latest blog: \u00a0Four-ways-add-self-esteem-friends-listI hope this offers you some nuggets of helpfulness!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-hate-the-way-i-look", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Why am I starting to not like myself? For the past year, I have been feeling pressured to do well in school, and it put a ton of stress on me. I have been bullied for five years, and for some reason, it is now sinking in, and I can't stop it. For some other reason, I can't find a hobby I can see myself doing without thinking bad about myself.\nTherapist: Check out my latest blog on: \u00a0Four-ways-add-self-esteem-friends-listI hope this provides a few nuggets of helpfulness to you!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-starting-to-not-like-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How can I not hate myself? I feel like I'm ugly, stupid, useless, and that I can't make anyone happy.\nTherapist: Check out my blog post on: \u00a0Four-ways-add-self-esteem-friends-list/I hope this offers you some nuggets of helpfulness!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-not-hate-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Why do I have low self-esteem and lack confidence? I always need alcohol to feel better and use that as a excuse.\nTherapist: Check out my latest blog on: \u00a0Four-ways-add-self-esteem-friends-listI hope this offers you some nuggets of helpfulness!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-have-low-self-esteem-and-lack-confidence", "topics": "Self-esteem,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: How do I become more self-confident in general? nan\nTherapist: Check out my latest blog: \u00a0Four-ways-add-self-esteem-friends-listI hope this offers you some nuggets of helpfulness!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-become-more-self-confident-in-general", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a person to stop feeling emotions? I was raped a couple months ago, Since then, along with other unfortunately events that have occurred, I have been having trouble feeling emotions. It's almost as if I'm a sociopath lacking any feeling. What can I do to change this?\nTherapist: Terrible things do happen in life, and I am sorry to hear about what happened to you. Please rest assured that you are not a sociopath, and that your reactions are normal responses to traumatic events. I'm guessing you are experiencing a sense of numbness, which is a common response to trauma. The best thing you can do is to get some trauma counseling with a professional counselor. As you process your experience, you will be able to feel emotions again. However, the first feelings to come back may be related to trauma, such as fear, panic, and a sense of hyper vigilance.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-person-to-stop-feeling-emotions", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less afraid of rape? Why am I so afraid of it? I don't understand.\nTherapist: Because it is a problem in the United States! The National Sexual Violence Resource Center reports that one in five women (0r 20%) will be raped (http://www.nsvrc.org/sites/default/files/publications_nsvrc_factsheet_media-packet_statistics-about-sexual-violence_0.pdf) and that 80% of women know their assailant. In addition, talking with a counselor about your fears would also be a good idea. Sometimes fears are rational and reasonable. When then are over-reactions and unreasonable, they can have a negative impact on your life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-afraid-of-rape", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a person to stop feeling emotions? I was raped a couple months ago, Since then, along with other unfortunately events that have occurred, I have been having trouble feeling emotions. It's almost as if I'm a sociopath lacking any feeling. What can I do to change this?\nTherapist: You're not a sociopath - you're traumatized. It's temporary - which is both good and bad news, because after the numb goes away and your brain decides you're ready to handle it, you'll feel the emotional pain. My advice is to get a therapist ASAP so you have a safe place and a safe person when that happens. This is a horrible thing that happened to you, but you are not a horrible person. With good therapy you will learn to assimilate this into the rest of your life.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-person-to-stop-feeling-emotions", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: I want to become a better man. I'm having relationship problems and I want to fix them to make things right before I lose her. How can I learn how to listen and get myself together?\nTherapist: What an important question, and the fact that you're asking it is a big step in the right direction. Your girlfriend is the expert on what she needs and wants in relationship. You could simply say to her that you know you still have a lot to learn about how to have a good relationship and you realize you're not yet understanding what she needs and\u00a0you really want to. Then take a deep breath, settle down, and listen. Don't argue, don't interrupt, don't judge... listen.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-become-a-better-man", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I want to become a better man. I'm having relationship problems and I want to fix them to make things right before I lose her. How can I learn how to listen and get myself together?\nTherapist: First, I want to say that it is great that you are are willing to admit that you share some responsibility in some of the relationship problems you are having. This isn't always easy to do, but it sure is important if you want to see improvement. I want to tell you that you are not alone. This is because some of the hurt and anger could be at such a level already that you may need help setting boundaries, creating a plan, learning new skills, and staying on track. He is an expert in relationships and wrote a really great, easy-to-read book called The Seven Principles for Making Marriage Work. Here is one that I found that has a few good tips.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-become-a-better-man", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I want to become a better man. I'm having relationship problems and I want to fix them to make things right before I lose her. How can I learn how to listen and get myself together?\nTherapist: Becoming a good listener is an essential piece in being a better communicator. What stands in your way of listening to her? Do you often find yourself thinking of what you want to say next? Ask questions if you need clarification or don't understand.3. Summarize what you're hearing after every couple of minutes to make sure that you're not missing anything.4. Ask your partner what she needs from you. Is she expecting advice or does she simply need to vent?5.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-become-a-better-man", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I want to become a better man. I'm having relationship problems and I want to fix them to make things right before I lose her. How can I learn how to listen and get myself together?\nTherapist: I love that you are so thoughtful and proactive about this! If only every client came in as solution focused as you, my job would be so much easier. When both partners seek to serve one another and stay curious about each other in the process, intimacy abounds!Best of luck my friend! And if you get stuck, of course seeking help from a professional is always a great idea too. ;)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-become-a-better-man", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I want to become a better man. I'm having relationship problems and I want to fix them to make things right before I lose her. How can I learn how to listen and get myself together?\nTherapist: The first step for making this sort of change is being motivated to change and it sounds like you have that, so you are already on the right track. You could also start by talking about something that is important to you. It's difficult to really understand one topic if you are on to the next within just a minute or twoTry to use the word want or wish instead of need. Timeout is a way to give each of you a way to calm down for five, 10, 15 minutes, or maybe even an hour.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-become-a-better-man", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I want to become a better man. I'm having relationship problems and I want to fix them to make things right before I lose her. How can I learn how to listen and get myself together?\nTherapist: The best tool for becoming a better listener that I know of is called Imago Dialogue. Continue to ask if she has more to add until she doesn't.2. You can also say, \"That makes sense\" or \"I hear you\" or \"I get that. Tell her how you think she must feel about what she's telling you. My guess is that the arguments, discussions, and debates you've had with her have been counterproductive because you're both trying to win. She gets to be heard and you get to hear for a change.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-become-a-better-man", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I have difficulty with communication. I am a really shy person. I'm currently in a graduate program which requires lots of presentations, but they always make me feel stressed out and less confident. How can I get more confident?\nTherapist: Have you tried rehearsing to yourself or a trusted friend what you will present to the class? The more confident you feel in a safe space, the more chance there will be of making the same presentation to a larger group. Giving presentations is not necessarily a difficulty with communication. Practice, practice, and practice, until you see yourself improve in how you present. Also, keep in mind that whatever anxiety you may feel about making a mistake, the audience is almost alway much more forgiving than the person who feels anxious.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-difficulty-with-communication", "topics": "Anxiety,Stress"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a person to stop feeling emotions? I was raped a couple months ago, Since then, along with other unfortunately events that have occurred, I have been having trouble feeling emotions. It's almost as if I'm a sociopath lacking any feeling. What can I do to change this?\nTherapist: Sociopaths don't know they are sociopaths. Knowing and feeling disturbing emotions which rupture basic trust that other people are safe, is itself a raw process. Yes, it is possible to become numb emotionally. The good purpose is to protect you from additional hurt. When your inner world feels itself ready, more of your emotions from the recent distressing events will be accessible. If many months pass and you see no progress, then definitely consider a few sessions with a therapist who would be able to guide you to become more open to your feelings.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-person-to-stop-feeling-emotions", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Why do I always push my boyfriend away? My boyfriend shows affection, but I just push him away.  Every time my boyfriend tries to kiss, hug, or touch me I almost always push him away. I'm on birth control and it has killed my sex drive.    I love him so much.  Why do I do this?\nTherapist: Are you sure it is only the birth control pills which has changed your sex drive?My guess would be that possibly due to the hormonal changes of the pill, your own awareness and understanding of yourself in this relationship, is what is actually changing. They don't directly prevent people from all desire to express affection. Allow yourself some time to reflect on how you feel toward your BF. It is possible the birth control pills triggered a change in your attitude toward him. And, maybe independent of the pill, maybe you just are done with the relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-always-push-my-boyfriend-away", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel sad all the time? I just feel sad all the time and I don't like anyone in my family. I feel like they're trying to control me and won't let me grow.\nTherapist: Hello,While one can be sad from time to time, feeling sad \"all the time\" could be a sign of depression. If you feel sad on most days, it is worthwhile speaking to a psychologist to determine whether you suffer clinical depression. However, feeling sadness all the time is a signal that you are not happy about something in your life. These are just a few examples of common issues that people report that contribute to their depression. For more information about depression, please consult my website at www.PsychologyResource.ca", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-sad-all-the-time", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression"}, {"text": "User: I have difficulty with communication. I am a really shy person. I'm currently in a graduate program which requires lots of presentations, but they always make me feel stressed out and less confident. How can I get more confident?\nTherapist: Wow, congratulations on being in a masters program. You should give yourself a pat on the back. Having gone through two masters programs I can sympathize with your your dilemma. Not so much for their input as to just get used to presenting.3. Let the material you present be the focus. Remember everyone else is just as nervous as you. Take the time to let a professional help you work through this.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-have-difficulty-with-communication", "topics": "Anxiety,Stress"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I'm always wrong in everything in my relationship? My wife is always accusing me of cheating and telling me that I'm doing things she finds disrespectful even when I don't mean it like that. For example, she gets offended when I call someone at work \"sweetheart.\"  I wish I had a penny for every time she accused me of cheating on her.  She doesn't, and never will say she was wrong. How do I get her to understand?\nTherapist: That must be very frustrating for you to feel that you to be reminded of constant wrongdoing in your relationship, especially when you feel that your wife does not admit to any fault. If so, what you want to do is to reflect to her that perhaps she is saying that you are unfaithful because she senses that you are moving away from her emotionally. You may want to reflect in what context you meant to use the term and share it with your wife. Unfortunately, blaming invites defensiveness and a withdrawn behavior because most people who feel blamed do not feel good about themselves and wishes to distance themselves from the person who is making them feel unhappy. Finding a healthy way of reaching out when your partner is in turmoil to help calm her emotions and being able to speak about your own feelings and needs is at the heart of a very secure attachment.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-m-always-wrong-in-everything-in-my-relationship", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why do I always push my boyfriend away? My boyfriend shows affection, but I just push him away.  Every time my boyfriend tries to kiss, hug, or touch me I almost always push him away. I'm on birth control and it has killed my sex drive.    I love him so much.  Why do I do this?\nTherapist: There could be many reasons that you push your boyfriend away. It could be part of how you were raised, it could be because of culture, it could even be your own insecurities about yourself that are then outwardly manifested in you \"pushing\" him away. What is important in all this is that you both find a way to connect. So what if you aren't a hugger, a kisser, or a toucher you have to find what works for the both of you and your relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-always-push-my-boyfriend-away", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I'm always wrong in everything in my relationship? My wife is always accusing me of cheating and telling me that I'm doing things she finds disrespectful even when I don't mean it like that. For example, she gets offended when I call someone at work \"sweetheart.\"  I wish I had a penny for every time she accused me of cheating on her.  She doesn't, and never will say she was wrong. How do I get her to understand?\nTherapist: Here is the truth: You will never get her to understand! because that would mean changing her and we can't change other people we can only change ourselves. I would recommend to take the time to self reflect on what exactly it is that you are doing that is contributing to the mixup. You both have very valid feelings and those won't magically go away until you address the root problem (which could be many factors). I am curious to know more about past relationships the both of you have had and how that plays a role in your current relationship. Many times we don't realize how past relationships truly impact our current behaviors.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-m-always-wrong-in-everything-in-my-relationship", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I have a better sex life when I don't like sex? My husband and I have been married for seven years, and in that time, we have only had sex four or five times. Others have told me that most men would have left me by now. Honestly, I think I have a low sex drive or neither one of us actually knows what we are doing. I want to be better connected with my husband.\nTherapist: I work with many couples that experience a wide range of sexual and relationship challenges. There really isn't a \"normal\" amount of sex a person should have or want to have. If you or your husband would like to have sex more often, I suggest talking with a counselor about this to find ways to engage in a sexual life in which you are both satisfied. The aspect of connectedness is an important one. While sex can be very connecting for many couples, it isn't the only way to connect.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-better-sex-life-when-i-don-t-like-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I want to have a threesome with my husband and another girl, but  I feel really nervous. My husband and I had our first threesome recently. Everyone was drinking and he was on her more then me.   He and I talked about it afterwards and it made me feel better, and now I'm craving more of it. But before it gets close to happening I get this empty feeling. Why am I feeling this way?\nTherapist: Nervousness, when doing something new, especially something sexual that can feel so personal, is very common. Many people who engage in open, polyamorous, and/or other-type relationships, will tell you that difficult feelings, such as jealousy and anger, do show up sometimes. One reason could be that you are simply not as comfortable with the idea as you think you are. Some time and good communication with your husband may help you with this. When you get the \"empty\" feeling, it may be helpful to try to really nail down the emotions that are attached to that feeling. It is important that you are both on the same page about what this is, and why you are doing it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-have-a-threesome-with-my-husband-and-another-girl-but-i-feel-really-nervous", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why is it hard for me to express myself? I don't know how to tell someone how I feel about them. How can I get better at expressing how I feel?\nTherapist: Expressing yourself is vulnerable, and being vulnerable is hard. My guess is that you have been shown in your lifetime that being vulnerable (ie, expressing yourself) is unsafe. My assumption would be you have been criticized, or ignored when you have expressed yourself in the past, it has taught your emotional self to simply not do it again. This is a normal protective mechanism that you have used to cope with past feelings of hurt. It will take time and work to engage again in an emotional way. Choose others that feel safe to you, a good friend that knows you well, or a sibling or family member.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-is-it-hard-for-me-to-express-myself", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I want to have a threesome with my husband and another girl, but  I feel really nervous. My husband and I had our first threesome recently. Everyone was drinking and he was on her more then me.   He and I talked about it afterwards and it made me feel better, and now I'm craving more of it. But before it gets close to happening I get this empty feeling. Why am I feeling this way?\nTherapist: As someone who specializes in sexuality and polyamory, I can tell you that your experience is incredibly common. My encouragement to you is to try not to overthink it at this stage. The empty feeling could be any number of things including:Fear that \"you're not enough for him\"Fear that \"she's better than you\" in some wayFear that \"if we keep doing this thing, he will need it and what happens if I no longer want it?\"Opposite fear of \"what if I now want her more than him\" or \"if I want the threesomes and he doesn't?\"Fear of \"does this mean our sex life isn't good enough as it is?\"....\"do we have to always add a little spice to keep it hot?\"Or like Robin alluded to, preconceived notions about what culture, religion, family and friends etc.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-have-a-threesome-with-my-husband-and-another-girl-but-i-feel-really-nervous", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I keep a long distance relationship going? We weren't long distance until he joined the military.  I love him and I know he loves, me but it's complicated. He said he's not going to find someone else, but I'm afraid. How do I keep our relationship going?\nTherapist: You are asking a very good question about how to sustain a long-distance relationship. Without knowing more about the \"complicated\" nature of your relationship, I wonder whether your boyfriend has given you reason not to trust him that makes afraid that he will find someone else. Other times, it is Making sure they talk often to their long-distance partner so that they can participate in each others lives and to feel their presence.. Regular communication, understanding and caring is the key to sustaining any relationship, but this is especially true for long-distance ones. Dr. Virginia Chowwww.PsychologyResource.ca", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-keep-a-long-distance-relationship-going", "topics": "Relationships,Military Issues "}, {"text": "User: How can I keep a long distance relationship going? We weren't long distance until he joined the military.  I love him and I know he loves, me but it's complicated. He said he's not going to find someone else, but I'm afraid. How do I keep our relationship going?\nTherapist: You're right that long-distance relationships can be complicated. When having important discussions, consider the following:Make sure it is a good time to have a discussion (and if you're doing it in writing because of the distance, you could type something in the top of the message about not reading any further if the person who is reading doesn't have 10 minutes or something like that)Try to listen as though you are an investigative reporter trying to find out information about each other. Asking more questions in this manner can be a helpful way to be less defensive during difficult or emotional conversations. One final tip: Consider making a list of times when you work together and both feeling calm, safe, and comfortable.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-keep-a-long-distance-relationship-going", "topics": "Relationships,Military Issues "}, {"text": "User: How do I tell one parent I want to live with the other one? I want to live with my mom. My dad gets angry and makes me feel like everything is my fault. I still talk to my mom although My dad tells me that I'm no allowed to. I'm scared I will make the wrong decision and that my dad will hate me.   How do I tell him that I want to live with my mom?\nTherapist: There is a lot of information that needs to be filled in first. What does your mom think about the situation? Is she willing to go to bat for you?What is your age? Usually you have the right to choose based on age requirements set by the state. Is your father abusive and should you seek protection?Many details need to be filled in. You can seek counseling without your parents approving or knowing, depending on your age. Find counseling through school or local agencies.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-one-parent-i-want-to-live-with-the-other-one", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I just feel so alone. I feel so alone. I have so many people around me, but it seems as they just listen and dont understand.  They say it will all be okay, or they don't listen to me st all.  Everyone says they are here for me but it doesn't feel like they are. Why do I feel so alone?\nTherapist: You ask a very deep and sensitive question which reflects good self-awareness. It is possible you are a more sensitive and aware person than the people whom you describe as listening and not really hearing you. Not everyone has the same capacity or willingness to pay careful attention to what is going on in life. You're not alone in the sense that there are definitely people on this earth who are sensitive, caring, and willing to talk and understand others.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-just-feel-so-alone", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I ask my boyfriend about who he's texting? We've been in a long distance relationship for two and a half years. I recently saw his phone and saw the people he texts the most and one of them was a  female coworker. I don't know how to approach this situation. How do I ask him about it?.\nTherapist: If you'd like to ask a question, then go ahead and ask!Boyfriend/girlfriend is a close relationship and it is usually understood as an exclusive relationship. You're definitely entitled to know if your wishes to not have him texting another woman, are being respected. Often people are afraid to ask because they fear the truth will hurt them. In the short term this is definitely true. In the long term, knowing you are getting what you want and at the very least stating your expectations to your boyfriend, will clarify for him, what is meaningful in your relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-ask-my-boyfriend-about-who-he-s-texting", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I keep a long distance relationship going? We weren't long distance until he joined the military.  I love him and I know he loves, me but it's complicated. He said he's not going to find someone else, but I'm afraid. How do I keep our relationship going?\nTherapist: You're wise to be aware of possible changes to your relationship once your bf is away from you for extended time periods. All you both can do is state your intentions and wishes, keep in contact as much as possible, and wait to see how your relationship unfolds. To a large degree, each of you is relying on faith that if the relationship is meant to last for a while, then it will. This doesn't necessarily mean the stress will dissolve the relationship. Sometimes all anyone is able to do, is try.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-keep-a-long-distance-relationship-going", "topics": "Relationships,Military Issues "}, {"text": "User: How can I ask my boyfriend about who he's texting? We've been in a long distance relationship for two and a half years. I recently saw his phone and saw the people he texts the most and one of them was a  female coworker. I don't know how to approach this situation. How do I ask him about it?.\nTherapist: I agree with Sherry that in a close intimate relationship, you are entitled to ask questions about his relationship with significant others. How he responds to your question will give you an idea whether he helps you to feel more emotionally secure and builds trust or if you feel that you cannot be open with him. If he continues to be defensive or evasive, then there might be some bigger issues at stake and the two of you may benefit from couples counselling or having a discussion about the values that are important to you in the relationship and how the two of you will go about supporting those values with actions. Dr. Virginia Chowwww.PsychologyResource.ca", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-ask-my-boyfriend-about-who-he-s-texting", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I Sometimes I feel like I hate myself. I feel like I hate myself physically and emotionally sometimes. How can I start accepting myself and be more confident?\nTherapist: You already are at the first step of realizing that you hate yourself, not that the feelings of self-loathing are the best of what you're able to expect from life. A way to start building confidence is to pay close attention to the way you handle interactions and make decisions. If you start to notice what you'd like from an interaction, and afterwards, reflect on how well you handled yourself, especially with any unexpected circumstances, you'll build confidence in your ability to be good at something.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-sometimes-i-feel-like-i-hate-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How do I move on? I'm obsessing about a terrible breakup. Everything is a constant reminder.  How do I move on?\nTherapist: There is no timetable or known length of how much time a particular person requires in order to feel that the dissolved relationship is behind them. Probably the more you allow yourself to acknowledge your sadness from seeing the reminders, the sooner you will feel fresh and new again.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-move-on-2", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I'm always wrong in everything in my relationship? My wife is always accusing me of cheating and telling me that I'm doing things she finds disrespectful even when I don't mean it like that. For example, she gets offended when I call someone at work \"sweetheart.\"  I wish I had a penny for every time she accused me of cheating on her.  She doesn't, and never will say she was wrong. How do I get her to understand?\nTherapist: You may not get her to understand your point of view with any more success than your wife is having with you to do the same. It is possible you are a balanced couple in the sense of neither one of you understanding the other. The deeper question to ponder is whether each of you can accept the other person even though you each have very different terms for defining \"cheating\". You will find either there are enough strong similarities to keep the two of you happy as a couple, or there aren't these similarities. Then, the new question would be whether either of you want to address your findings or not.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-m-always-wrong-in-everything-in-my-relationship", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Overcoming fears. I have a fear of something and I want to face that fear to overcome it, but I don't know how. What can I do?\nTherapist: Overcoming fears is something that everyone struggles with at one time or another. Sometimes we come across something that scares us, we push through it and suddenly we aren't afraid anymore. For example, if you have a general phobia about something, they may use various techniques to help you manage it. When it comes to overcoming certain fears or phobias, exposure therapy well-studied and proven to work. A therapist would help you with this, but some websites give instructions for how to do it yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/overcoming-fears", "topics": "Anxiety,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: I just feel so alone. I feel so alone. I have so many people around me, but it seems as they just listen and dont understand.  They say it will all be okay, or they don't listen to me st all.  Everyone says they are here for me but it doesn't feel like they are. Why do I feel so alone?\nTherapist: Although we can have moments when we feel alone, even with the presence of family and friends, feeling alone most of the time could be a sign that there is a lack of connection between you and your loved ones. Generally, the lack of connection can occur when you don't feel heard, understood or valued. Do you communication clearly about what you need emotionally (understood, accepted, valued, heard, empathized)? The result may be an answer that is more informative to your loved ones. For example, you might say, \"Thank you for listening to me. Dr. Virginia Chowwww.psychologyresource.ca", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-just-feel-so-alone", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why can't I change? I know I'm ruining my life with a lot of the decisions I make.  I consistently tell myself I need to make some serious changes in my life, but I just can't seem to even though I really want to. Why can't I force myself to change?\nTherapist: Changing unwanted behavior is one of the hardest things a person can do. So, if you are going to stop showing up late for work, then you are deciding to be on time for work and demonstrating your value of being punctual. If you are going to make changes, really nail down WHY you want to make them. For example, if you have the goal of weight loss, the reason this is important to you as a person may be because you value self-care. If you set too high of goals you may not accomplish them and just feel worse. As Sherry mentioned, finding a counselor is sometimes a good idea if you really feel stuck.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-change", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: I want to have a threesome with my husband and another girl, but  I feel really nervous. My husband and I had our first threesome recently. Everyone was drinking and he was on her more then me.   He and I talked about it afterwards and it made me feel better, and now I'm craving more of it. But before it gets close to happening I get this empty feeling. Why am I feeling this way?\nTherapist: As you have courageously explained your soulful dilemma. I can appreciate the complexity of this situation. One, is the ultimate goal here able to be acquired from this arrangement? Are you trying to ask him to be more passive participant? Perhaps be careful of not drinking too heavily... In the whole event, how do you want to feel intimate or connected ? Were you craving all along, him to really be all over you along with her? Its always good to be very clear with oneself of what is the ultimate target here... And always measure the potential danger..\u00a0 Peace - keith", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-have-a-threesome-with-my-husband-and-another-girl-but-i-feel-really-nervous", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I just feel so alone. I feel so alone. I have so many people around me, but it seems as they just listen and dont understand.  They say it will all be okay, or they don't listen to me st all.  Everyone says they are here for me but it doesn't feel like they are. Why do I feel so alone?\nTherapist: I want to start off by saying, in kind of an ironic way, your struggle is something many people go through, I might say quite often. THe reasons for feeling alone vary much between person to person. Instead, its when\u00a0you follow up by inquiring and listening to others that\u00a0you \u00a0may discover they feel and think and struggle just like you do. And as a result, you discover you really were never alone; when people discover common struggle and feelings, we are connected. These are just some thoughts to consider.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-just-feel-so-alone", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Do I have some type of anxiety? Sometimes, I'm fine and can go out or meet people, but other days, my heart races and words physically cannot come out of my mouth. I've always thought it was normal and I was just nervous, but the other day, it took me almost 30 minutes of sitting in my car to find the courage to enter Target by myself.\nTherapist: Feelings of anxiety can be scary and sometimes we're not aware of the triggers that lead up to moments of anxiety, i. e., heart racing, sweaty palms, sweating, shortness of breath. It's important to realize that in moments of anxiety our body & mind are experiencing a reaction from our primal or reptilian brain that is signaling the flight or fight response within us, which kicks the hypothalamus into action flooding our body with chemicals, like adrenaline or cortisol. negative thought patterns, not enough food or sleep. Keeping a daily journal can help you track the patterns and triggers and once you identify the triggers you can ameliorate them by learning new skills & techniques and by reducing stress and getting enough sleep.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-some-type-of-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I get \"out of my head\" and stop obsessive thoughts? Often times I find myself thinking scary thoughts and sometimes  I even scare myself into thinking that something bad is going to happen to me. Once it starts, the thought continues going through my head and I can't get it out.  How can I stop these thoughts?\nTherapist: Scary thoughts can feel overwhelming at times as well as feeling quite real. So, how do we work or stop those scary thought streams? One new skill to implement comes from the work of Rick Hansen, he wrote the book Buddha's Brain,\" he teaches that we need to give more energy and attention to the positive thoughts or positive memories we hold in our mind and pay less attention to the negative thoughts. So, it's just important to remember we have to work at positive thinking, actually pausing throughout the day to focus on positive feelings and memories, \u00a0this will help the mind reinforce positive thought streams and help reduce negative thought streams over time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-out-of-my-head-and-stop-obsessive-thoughts", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How can I ask my boyfriend about who he's texting? We've been in a long distance relationship for two and a half years. I recently saw his phone and saw the people he texts the most and one of them was a  female coworker. I don't know how to approach this situation. How do I ask him about it?.\nTherapist: I think honesty is the right approach in this situation. Share with him that you looked at his phone, as well as sharing with him any fears or concerns that you're having about the long distance relationship. Trust is the foundation of any successful relationship and when doubt & distrust creep into a relationship it can undermine the long term health of the relationship. Hopefully, he will understand your concerns and appreciate your honesty. This also might be a good time to seek couples counseling to work on relationship & communication skills.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-ask-my-boyfriend-about-who-he-s-texting", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I get counseling  if my primary care physician won't help? I suffer from adult ADHD, anxiety disorder, and depression. It has been difficult to find a doctor in my area and my primary physician won't help. I am unemployed and overwhelmed. What would you suggest I do?\nTherapist: I would check out agencies that offer affordable counseling based on your income or very low cost counseling sessions, i.e., Pacific Clinics, Hathaway Sycamore, Pasadena Mental Health Center, Burbank Family Center. If you google affordable or low cost therapy in your particular area you will find resources to help you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-counseling-if-my-primary-care-physician-won-t-help", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Thoughts of afterlife causes anxiety. Sometimes I can't stop thinking about life after death. I was raised in a religion that teaches that we will live on forever either in hell or in heaven.  When I think of living forever (even if it is in heaven which should be good), I feel overwhelmed. I don't like the thought of living forever and ever and ever. Sometimes I just can't get the thought out of my mind and the thoughts lead to panic and anxiety.  Am I crazy? I don't think these thoughts are normal.\nTherapist: Religious questioning is a complex and often philosophical topic, and these types of questions, especially around heaven, hell, and an afterlife can bring up a host of difficult & confusing feelings. One new skill to implement comes from the work of Rick Hansen, he wrote the book Buddha's Brain,\" he teaches that we need to give more energy and attention to the positive thoughts or positive memories we hold in our mind and pay less attention to the negative thoughts. If a scary thought arises try to replace it with a happy experience for at least a couple of moments, and see if that helps reduce the negative charge connected with that scary thought. I would also suggest when you're having the thoughts about death take a moment to notice how you're breathing.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/thoughts-of-afterlife-causes-anxiety", "topics": "Anxiety,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: I want to have a threesome with my husband and another girl, but  I feel really nervous. My husband and I had our first threesome recently. Everyone was drinking and he was on her more then me.   He and I talked about it afterwards and it made me feel better, and now I'm craving more of it. But before it gets close to happening I get this empty feeling. Why am I feeling this way?\nTherapist: You need to have an honest conversation with each other about WHY you both want a threesome. How has your sex life been with each other? Let me say that again: This is not likely to work out well for you if either of you are insecure, jealous, or looking to have needs met by this other person that you aren't getting from your spouse. Dig deep to find out where it is coming from. If you're going to do it again, he needs to know what you're comfortable with and what you want. The REASON you are both doing this matters a lot.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-have-a-threesome-with-my-husband-and-another-girl-but-i-feel-really-nervous", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I crossdress and I don't know how to feel about it. I am a heterosexual male in my late 20s. I find myself wearing pantyhose, heels, skirts and other women's clothing in private. I am torn on how to feel about it. I enjoy it very much. I have had a pantyhose/stocking fascination and other kinky fetish interests since I was young. I have no history of sexual abuse growing up. I am currently single.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have already started to answer your own question by stating that you love cross dressing very much, and I am glad you enjoy it! Cross dressing is something many people enjoy, and there is no harm in it whatsoever. And sometimes certain sexual interests are actually very common or even in the majority, but because people carry shame about being different when it comes to gender and sexuality we assume we are all alone!)Being a sexual or gender minority or someone who participates in kink or expresses their sexuality or gender identity in a unique and personal way often means suffering from something called \"internalized oppression\". Even if those assumptions are harmful and wrong, we still internalize them and feel guilty about who we are.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-crossdress-and-i-don-t-know-how-to-feel-about-it", "topics": "Human Sexuality,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: Do I have to go to counseling to get hormones to transition from female to male? nan\nTherapist: To answer your question, I'm going to point you to a link from Dara Hoffman-Fox's blog. Dara is a gender therapist like myself, and everything Dara says is very accurate!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-to-go-to-counseling-to-get-hormones-to-transition-from-female-to-male", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I don't want to keep going back and forth between my parents' houses. I'm 17 and I'm sick and tired of going back and forth. I'd like to stay at my mother's house. This problem has really affected me. I've had anxiety attacks and suicidal thoughts and self-harm in the past.   Currently I'm going through anxiety and my thearapist is not available. How do I handle this?\nTherapist: I am so sorry to hear you are going through this. Divorce can be so disruptive in a child's life. There are so many variables, and not knowing the whole story, any advice could possibly make your situation worse. Still, they can't give you legal advice, and a lot of this situation may be dictated by the law. Was there ever a court hearing for custody? Does either of them have addiction issues, major health or mental health issues, or anything like that?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-want-to-keep-going-back-and-forth-between-my-parents-houses", "topics": "Anxiety,Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: About a year ago I found out my husband had cheated on me. Cheating is something unacceptable for me but because we have two daughters I decided not to break up the family. However, now I am struggling to forget and forgive what happened. I feel like I cannot trust him. Without trust, I cannot stay in this relationship. On the other hand, I do not want my children to get hurt. I'm not sure how to move forward?\nTherapist: It is completely understandable that you are struggling to forgive and forget this betrayal, and I'd like to echo the sentiment of Danielle Alvarez: infidelity takes time to heal from, so allow yourself to grieve and find the support you need. Having parents who learn to handle conflict or heal deep wounds in healthy ways is crucial for children's emotional and psychological development. Whether they see you heal together as a married couple or heal separately as loving but divorced co-parents, they will learn what it is like to expect healthy communication and boundaries in relationships, which I'm sure you want for your children! Take care of yourself, and I wish you much peace and healing.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/about-a-year-ago-i-found-out-my-husband-had-cheated-on-me", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How can I ask my boyfriend about who he's texting? We've been in a long distance relationship for two and a half years. I recently saw his phone and saw the people he texts the most and one of them was a  female coworker. I don't know how to approach this situation. How do I ask him about it?.\nTherapist: I'm not sure how you saw his phone if you're in a long distance relationship, because long distance means you live far apart from each other and don't get to see each other in person. Issues with trust, insecurity, jealousy, lying and/or hiding things from each other, being afraid to speak up and have an honest conversation - these things can ruin relationships if not addressed. It may be time for you both to take an honest assessment of your own reasons for being in the relationship, figure out what you want, and make a decision. Or, it could lead to a decision to end things.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-ask-my-boyfriend-about-who-he-s-texting", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my girlfriend? My girlfriend just quit drinking and she became really depressed. She told me that she wants to move. What can I do to help her?  I want her to stay.\nTherapist: You're probably not going to like my answer. Sometimes, what's best for a person is the hardest thing to do, and may be completely opposite of what YOU want. Not only that, but the addict needs to do a lot of personal reflection to figure out WHY they use/drink in the first place, and not only break the physical addiction to it, but deal with whatever is the root cause that led them to use in the first place. Let her have the freedom to do what she needs to do. It doesn't need to be made under pressure.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Relationships,Substance Abuse,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Overcoming fears. I have a fear of something and I want to face that fear to overcome it, but I don't know how. What can I do?\nTherapist: Biologically, fear is designed to protect us from harm. A phobia is an irrational fear - meaning it is not rational for you to fear that thing. If your situation is a phobia, exposure therapy can help. Some people with phobias find that the irrational fear interferes with their life and they do need to overcome it. Someone who is afraid to drive over bridges may go to great lengths to avoid routes that have bridges. If overcoming a phobia will improve the quality of your life, then by all means, seek professional help to overcome it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/overcoming-fears", "topics": "Anxiety,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: I Sometimes I feel like I hate myself. I feel like I hate myself physically and emotionally sometimes. How can I start accepting myself and be more confident?\nTherapist: The answer would require a more in-depth knowledge of you and your situation. Children who grow up in an unstable home often grow up to be adults with insecurities and emotional problems. The obvious, such as being abused, can certainly lead to a person having little to no confidence and self esteem, but there are other situations that might surprise you to hear they can be damaging to a person. You may have never been physically or sexually abused, but what about emotionally? Were you compared to siblings and felt like you always fell short, couldn't live up to expectations? Understanding WHY you feel that way is a first step towards making the changes needed to feel better.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-sometimes-i-feel-like-i-hate-myself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my dad? My dad makes me feel like shit and like I'm worthless.  He calls me names and makes me feel depressed.  I want to move out because I swear if I stay here, I'm going to lose it. What can I do?\nTherapist: Then by all means, what's stopping you?If not, is it possible for you to move in with another family member?If you're a minor, CPS may need to step in. But I can say this: Don't let other people define your self worth. By looking at it as a choice you make, you will be empowered to take control over your emotions and learn to feel better about yourself because your self-worth will no longer be defined by what someone else says about you or how they treat you. I understand that if you are a minor, setting healthy boundaries and refusing to accept this kind of treatment can be difficult. Put up some boundaries and create the distance needed to protect yourself emotionally.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-dad-2", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Why do I always push my boyfriend away? My boyfriend shows affection, but I just push him away.  Every time my boyfriend tries to kiss, hug, or touch me I almost always push him away. I'm on birth control and it has killed my sex drive.    I love him so much.  Why do I do this?\nTherapist: It is actually quite common for one partner to have a higher sex drive than the other, and can lead to discord in the relationship. If your birth control pills are the cause of this, talk to your doctor about switching to a different brand. You may even consider alternate methods for birth control, such as condoms. However, there are some other things to ask yourself. A therapist could help you work through this. If, after all of this, you still have a discrepancy with one of you having a higher sex drive, there are many articles online that offer advice for couples dealing with this situation that you may find useful.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-always-push-my-boyfriend-away", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Overcoming fears. I have a fear of something and I want to face that fear to overcome it, but I don't know how. What can I do?\nTherapist: Fears are not that difficult to deal with, first you need to train yourself to relax using some relaxation strategy, once you are able to employ that in your daily life, you then need to start facing your fear, for instance I'll use an example of a man who has a fear of driving over a bridge. Secondly, look at your fears, do they even need to be worked on, some fears are healthy, for example if i was a therapist in New York City and someone came to me and said \"I'm scared of snakes\", I would probably say that is OK because there are very little snakes left in ManhattanHope that helps C", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/overcoming-fears", "topics": "Anxiety,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a couple to overcome cheating if it only happened once? My fianc\u00e9 and I have been together for 3 years and our relationship has always been good. The only issue we had was that he felt like he wasn't getting enough sexual attention from me.   I recently found out he cheated on me with another women.  He says he wants his family back but I'm confused on what to do.  Is it possible for us to get past the cheating, or should I just move on?\nTherapist: First off, let's start with really validating the potential emotional pain you are feeling right now. These are all normal emotions and being allowed to feel them is the beginning of the healing process. A bit longer of an explanation is that is sounds like you and your fianc\u00e9 had pieces of a solid foundation to base a relationship on. For many couples they encounter a primary challenge, sometimes that's money, or parenting and for some it's sexuality. Good luck to you and your continues healing and growth!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-couple-to-overcome-cheating-if-it-only-happened-once", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How can I keep a long distance relationship going? We weren't long distance until he joined the military.  I love him and I know he loves, me but it's complicated. He said he's not going to find someone else, but I'm afraid. How do I keep our relationship going?\nTherapist: My husband and I joined the USAF two months after we got married! Do you have access to Skype or something similar? I have a number of military friends who have dates over the miles with facebook live. They pick a restaurant, order, and talk about their day. What are some things that you have tried?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-keep-a-long-distance-relationship-going", "topics": "Relationships,Military Issues "}, {"text": "User: Does my daughter have a mental disability? My daughter is in later elementary school. She can't color in the lines. Her words jumble together when she writes unless there are big spaces or she skips lines.\nTherapist: There could be a number of things going on here. For instance, have her eyes been checked by an optometrist? She might just not like writing or coloring. She could be rushing through assignments so that she can spend time with friends, play games, or do something else. She might need some extra help with fine motor skills. Does she rush through other things like cleaning her room or getting ready for bed?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/does-my-daughter-have-a-mental-disability", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Could a car accident add more problems to my posttraumatic stress disorder? I have been diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder due to my military experiences. Not a year ago, I had a car accident. Could this experience add more problems?\nTherapist: Post Traumatic Stress Disorder can occur after any traumatic event where a real and present threat of harm or loss of life to yourself or others is present. Yes, a car accident could increase PTSD symptoms such as hyper-vigilance, anxiety, nightmares, re-playing the event, etc. Depending on the severity of the accident new triggers might exist. This is not to say that you cannot recover. Are you currently experiencing additional trauma symptoms?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/could-a-car-accident-add-more-problems-to-my-posttraumatic-stress-disorder", "topics": "Trauma,Military Issues "}, {"text": "User: How can I see my base doctor without my ID? I need to get on base to see my doctor. My ID card was in my wallet which was stolen. I\u2019m unable to reach my husband at this time. He is only one who can take me on base in order to get a new ID so I can continue to see doctor. Is there anything I can do?\nTherapist: As a prior military spouse myself I can happily report that you have several options in this case. First, you can go to the visitors center and let them know what has happened to get a temporary pass for a new id. Also, you can call the squadron commander or other official from your husband's unit to get them to tell you how to proceed. You can also contact the military personnel flight for more information The best thing is to get a new id as soon as you can. There should be no problems because it was stolen and yu might need to report it to the military police or security forces on base.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-see-my-base-doctor-without-my-id", "topics": "Military Issues "}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a couple to overcome cheating if it only happened once? My fianc\u00e9 and I have been together for 3 years and our relationship has always been good. The only issue we had was that he felt like he wasn't getting enough sexual attention from me.   I recently found out he cheated on me with another women.  He says he wants his family back but I'm confused on what to do.  Is it possible for us to get past the cheating, or should I just move on?\nTherapist: I think there are many different directions we could go as far as answering your question. First, if you truly love this guy and see yourself being with him long term and for the \"long haul\", so to speak...and you genuinely want to forgive him and trust him again, that is completely do-able and possible if you both put in the work. Of course, it may not be true, he may have legit reasons for his behaviors, but the point is if you are going to be in paranoia-mode OR you just will always be unsure whether he loves you and is committed to you and only you, then the trust may not be able to be re-built. If you decide you want to stay with him, you would really benefit from couples counseling, as it sounds like a professional could help you strengthen your communication and ability to trust again.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-couple-to-overcome-cheating-if-it-only-happened-once", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How can I get \"out of my head\" and stop obsessive thoughts? Often times I find myself thinking scary thoughts and sometimes  I even scare myself into thinking that something bad is going to happen to me. Once it starts, the thought continues going through my head and I can't get it out.  How can I stop these thoughts?\nTherapist: I'm sorry you're going through this problem of scary thoughts in your mind. What is possible is to question their value, accuracy, and believability. Maybe if you examine the thoughts which upset you, you'll be able to feel better by understanding that the thoughts are not very relevant to your actual life. Also, another choice of what to do with the upsetting thoughts, is to redirect them. When a stressful or frightening thought shows up in your mind, give it a happy resolution. Basically, turn the fright into something pleasant or at least bearable. I hope this helps you at least a little bit!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-out-of-my-head-and-stop-obsessive-thoughts", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: I don't want to keep going back and forth between my parents' houses. I'm 17 and I'm sick and tired of going back and forth. I'd like to stay at my mother's house. This problem has really affected me. I've had anxiety attacks and suicidal thoughts and self-harm in the past.   Currently I'm going through anxiety and my thearapist is not available. How do I handle this?\nTherapist: Have you told either of your parents that the current house rotation of where you stay, bothers you?Since each parent has an interest to be together with you, I imagine that to some degree, each cares how you feel. If these conversations are not getting your problem solved, then maybe your therapist can have a family session with your parents together and depending on the outcome, with you and each parent.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-want-to-keep-going-back-and-forth-between-my-parents-houses", "topics": "Anxiety,Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: Why doesn't any guy want to date me? I have high functioning autism and I have been on a lot of dating sites like meet me, match, and zoosk. I haven't had any luck on any of the dating sites I have been on.   I really want a boyfriend but I don't know what I should do. I just want to be in a relationship. How can I meet someone?\nTherapist: Are there dating sites for people who have autism on the high functioning end?If not, then find out the names of different organizations which support people who have autism. At least one of these groups will have some guidance as to social activities for dating or even specific sites for dating when autism is a criteria. All the rejection on dating sites is rough for anyone to handle. How do you know that you're being passed over by guys who are on dating sites because you have autism?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-doesn-t-any-guy-want-to-date-me", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a couple to overcome cheating if it only happened once? My fianc\u00e9 and I have been together for 3 years and our relationship has always been good. The only issue we had was that he felt like he wasn't getting enough sexual attention from me.   I recently found out he cheated on me with another women.  He says he wants his family back but I'm confused on what to do.  Is it possible for us to get past the cheating, or should I just move on?\nTherapist: Both partners need to be feel motivated enough to repair the relationship and dedicated to the work needed to address whatever underlying issues led to the serious breach of trust. For some people, cheating is an absolute deal breaker\u2014for others, the context of the cheating allows them to see it as a mistake that they can forgive their partner for. So it depends on how you feel about the relationship and whether you want to put in the work to repair it. If you're not sure how you feel, counseling can help you resolve the ambiguity, either individually or with your partner.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-couple-to-overcome-cheating-if-it-only-happened-once", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How can I find myself again? I just don't know what I want in life anymore. I'm can't figure out what it is that is keeping me distracted and unfocused. I can't put things into perspective at all. I'm just stuck, and I'm disappointed with my lack of accomplishments.\nTherapist: If you are a people-pleaser type or a natural caretaker, you can slowly \"lose yourself\" over time if you are always tending to the needs of others and neglecting yourself. In both scenarios, if there is no awareness that this \"self sacrifice at the expense of others\" is going on, your identity is shaped around being a caretaker/enabler/people-pleaser and down the road it can lead to depression, low self esteem, and a confused sense of self. Before you realize it, you have been living a life for others instead of yourself and you have no idea who YOU are.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-find-myself-again", "topics": "Self-esteem,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How should I handle the child I had with my ex-wife? My ex-wife married and used me to have a child. She now uses that child as a pawn. I know my child misses me, but I need to move on and not live in the past. How do I do this? Do I see my child as much as possible or very little? Is it more confusing for the child?\nTherapist: You can \"move on and not live in the past\" in the context of your ex-relationship, but that does not mean moving on from your child. \" Moving on\" then would involve accepting the end of the relationship and developing a civil relationship with your ex-partner as far as is possible for the sake of your child's development. What's confusing for children is seeing their parents act uncivilly or manipulatively. Children also do well with routines so regular dependable visitation is preferable to random visitation or, worse, not following through on commitments.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-should-i-handle-the-child-i-had-with-my-ex-wife", "topics": "Parenting,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Overcoming fears. I have a fear of something and I want to face that fear to overcome it, but I don't know how. What can I do?\nTherapist: This answer could be very different depending on the fear, the degree of it, and what it connects to. If it's more than a 5/10, I would definitely recommend talking with a therapist in your area. A lot of fears that we have come from something that at one time was self-protective and important. If you think it is still protecting you or helping you in some way, talk with someone (like a therapist) about it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/overcoming-fears", "topics": "Anxiety,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: I don't want to keep going back and forth between my parents' houses. I'm 17 and I'm sick and tired of going back and forth. I'd like to stay at my mother's house. This problem has really affected me. I've had anxiety attacks and suicidal thoughts and self-harm in the past.   Currently I'm going through anxiety and my thearapist is not available. How do I handle this?\nTherapist: We have to think of your safety and take care of those thoughts of hurting yourself. Yes, this is a major problem for you and can cause anxiety and depression. I am not sure of your rights in the state you live in but as far as I know you as a 17 year old you have the right to stay where you want. So your'e going through an anxiety episode and your therapist is not available. Staying with your mom should be your choice. I know you probably don't want to hurt anyone's feelings but there are ways to ease the tension.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-want-to-keep-going-back-and-forth-between-my-parents-houses", "topics": "Anxiety,Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I get \"out of my head\" and stop obsessive thoughts? Often times I find myself thinking scary thoughts and sometimes  I even scare myself into thinking that something bad is going to happen to me. Once it starts, the thought continues going through my head and I can't get it out.  How can I stop these thoughts?\nTherapist: Hi there,I first want to let you know that having these thoughts is completely normal. I like to think of thoughts as a tornado... if you are in a tornado, you are completely consumed by it and it is nearly impossible to do anything beneficial. The purpose of this is not to decrease your fear or get rid of the thought. Then breathe into them and make room for them. The purpose is to keep them from becoming more intense. How deep are your breaths, what is happening with your heart rate, are you cold/warm, etc?Implementing these three steps can help you to refrain from getting caught up in your unhelpful thoughts.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-out-of-my-head-and-stop-obsessive-thoughts", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Overcoming fears. I have a fear of something and I want to face that fear to overcome it, but I don't know how. What can I do?\nTherapist: In fact, our five main emotions are joy, fear, sadness, shame, and anger. What kind of relationships would you have?I imagine your fear has kept you from achieving those goals because your mind tells you you can't do it until the fear is gone. Example: I would like to change careersWhat actions are necessary to complete this goal? It would be helpful to remind myself that: example: It is natural to have these thoughts, feelings, and urges but I can take action anyway.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/overcoming-fears", "topics": "Anxiety,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: Yes, Counseling provides an area for people to speak to an unbiased professional about their concerns to address their unique needs. While length of time varies, counseling is a process and can be done from as little as one session to multiple sessions. Counseling provide a safe, non-judgmental, empathetic atmosphere from a professional helper provide the service", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How can I help my girlfriend? My girlfriend just quit drinking and she became really depressed. She told me that she wants to move. What can I do to help her?  I want her to stay.\nTherapist: You should start by speaking with her about what has her so down. Have their been some significant events in her life that have affected her? Have their been significant events in your relationship that can be affecting \u00a0you both? If she just stopped drinking, she may be struggling to finding an alternative\u00a0and healthier behavior. This is something the two of you can explore together. Also, if need be perhaps she can speak to a therapist to discuss her feelings about quitting alcohol. It sounds like you really care and right now she could use all the support she can get despite her pushing you away.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Relationships,Substance Abuse,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My sister and my husband had an affair. It was over 20 years ago, but the pain has resurfaced again now because I have started seeing her Facebook posts about how great her life is. I feel so angry. How can I handle this?\nTherapist: Affairs and infidelity are tough areas to address. The power of the affair comes from the feeling of injustice that seems to have happened to you. I assume you want to forgive or have forgiven. However, the forgetting part is difficult. It seems that image of her happiness may have triggered something in you that isn't happy. I'm not sure how often you are triggered by her but it seems there is something there you need to process. Also, see how you are feeling as days go on. If so, you may need to seek a professional counselor.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-sister-and-my-husband-had-an-affair", "topics": "Family Conflict,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: What makes a good marriage? What makes a healthy marriage last?\nTherapist: This answer varies based on you relationship. However, I do believe their are some basic fundamental areas that are beneficial for a healthy marriage:1.) Everyone has their favorite qualities they feel best fit a marriage. However, these are what I think are great starting points.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-makes-a-good-marriage", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How can I ask my boyfriend about who he's texting? We've been in a long distance relationship for two and a half years. I recently saw his phone and saw the people he texts the most and one of them was a  female coworker. I don't know how to approach this situation. How do I ask him about it?.\nTherapist: The best way to get an answer is to just ask. I would defintely\u00a0let him know you are asking out of concern and not to judge or criticize. Allow him to explain his answer and see how you feel about it. Try to ask him when you both are already discussing other topics and just say, \"Can I ask you something?\"", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-ask-my-boyfriend-about-who-he-s-texting", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: It's a great question and one that many people want to know the answer to. Counseling can be very helpful to people struggling with many different things. In addition, there are many people who would tell you that counseling made a positive, profound impact on their lives. Indeed, some would tell you that counseling saved their lives. But when you think about it, there are many medical treatments for a variety of healthcare issues that also do not help everyone. If you don't know where to go, I suggest contacting your state's counseling association. Be well,Robin J. Landwehr, DBH, LPCC, NCC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: Counselling offers a number of ways to help one to improve their situation. For some, this process can take a very long, winding path of self-discovery, while, for others, they are seeking a purposeful, solution-based way to approach and manage a specific problem. It's important to remember that there are different styles of therapy, some of which will work great with some, but poorly with others, specifically to help those to decide how they wish to move forward. and research has shown that the most effective route for better mental health care comes from a combination of counselling and medication.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: There are multiple ways that counseling helps people. The most basic is that it gives you someone to talk to about and through what you are facing. It is better than a friend because this is a space for your stuff and you get to focus on what you need and don't have to worry about the other side. The counselor may also be aware of connections that you would not otherwise see. A good counselor will also recognize if and when you need other help or support in the situation. Why wouldn't you benefit from having someone walk with you in your journey to peace and wholeness.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I am very self conscious about my body. On the first day of school I wore a bra that was too big so that it would look like I had bigger boobs.  I did that the whole school year and my parents never found out. But now I can never hang out with my friends at my house or invite them over because it would be around my parents and my friends would see there is nothing there on my chest.   How do I fix this?\nTherapist: Sometimes we let our insecurities get the best of us, causing us to make some interesting choices. Honesty is always the best policy, but honesty comes with risk. Perhaps you may want to start with your family first, explaining to them what you have done and why. Perhaps they can help you to practice talking about your insecurities with your friends. Another way is to start, slowly, to dress more and more like yourself and your true body shape.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-am-very-self-conscious-about-my-body", "topics": "Self-esteem,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Could a car accident add more problems to my posttraumatic stress disorder? I have been diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder due to my military experiences. Not a year ago, I had a car accident. Could this experience add more problems?\nTherapist: Especially, \u00a0if it was serious, you could have feared for your life, felt everythingvwas out of control and had normal reactions to an abnormal situation afterwards. This may or may not be related to the traumas that you experienced in the military. Even if it didn't, it is possible that the complexity of the two situations will interact inside you to be a combined response. The right exploration does not have to make things worse and can be a good source of prevention.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/could-a-car-accident-add-more-problems-to-my-posttraumatic-stress-disorder", "topics": "Trauma,Military Issues "}, {"text": "User: I've been trying to work through it, and my boyfriend has been my rock. I cannot afford to see a therapist or anything, so he saw no hope in staying with me. My insurance has a $5000 deductible, so I\u2019m screwed. I've had everything from suicidal thoughts to trying to quit my job. My family doesn't care about me; they kicked me out when I turned 18 a few years ago. My ex-boyfriend is trying to help but is making things worse because every time I see or hear him, I break down into tears.\nTherapist: It sounds like you have been struggling with this for quite some time, using many of the same coping techniques that feel tried and true to no avail. The best route forward would be to seek out counselling, admittedly, but if your insurance deductible is too high, that can be very expensive. If not, you can look into community centres for counselling options, check if your doctor will give you a referral or your local religious organization. If, however, you are motivated to get your depression under control, there are some great workbooks out there that you can use on your own or with your therapist (as long as your therapist is trained in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy, or CBT), such as \"Mind Over Mood\".", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-my-existence-is-meaningless", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: A counselor can do a few things that can be helpful:1) Give you a space where you can explore what's in your head without worrying about being judged or punished.2) Help you better understand yourself, your choices, your motivations.3) Give you tools and information you can use to help create change in your life. Ultimately, though, it's up to the client to take action, because action is what creates change. So, a counselor can't create change ... but they can facilitate and support it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I want to become a better man. I'm having relationship problems and I want to fix them to make things right before I lose her. How can I learn how to listen and get myself together?\nTherapist: Hard to say a whole lot without knowing more. However, if you focus your attention on her, what she's saying, what she's feeling instead of trying to make yourself heard and understood first, that's often a good step. Also, work on building win-win agreements with her, and follow through on them. Those are the areas I see men fall short on most often.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-become-a-better-man", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I don't want to keep going back and forth between my parents' houses. I'm 17 and I'm sick and tired of going back and forth. I'd like to stay at my mother's house. This problem has really affected me. I've had anxiety attacks and suicidal thoughts and self-harm in the past.   Currently I'm going through anxiety and my thearapist is not available. How do I handle this?\nTherapist: Sounds like a lot is going on right now at such a young age. I'd start with discussing with mom your concerns and ideal situation. I'm unsure what prevents you from staying there, but whoever you are staying with, it should be brought to their attention. In regards to your anxiety attacks, deep breathing is always a benefits. This is something you can speak with your therapist about going forward when they are available. In regards to feeling suicidal: I would call suicide prevention hotline (You can google them) if you truly feel the ideation is getting worse.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-want-to-keep-going-back-and-forth-between-my-parents-houses", "topics": "Anxiety,Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: What makes a good marriage? What makes a healthy marriage last?\nTherapist: In one sentence, I would say the following:Recognize that while you and your partner probably have common interests and areas of commonality, you are separate people, each with different wants, wishes, and desires \u2013 if you consider a diagram of two overlapping circles, they may share perhaps a third of the circle with overlap to indicate commonality (could be more or less) and then there are parts of the circles that are not overlapping, indicating separate interestsAs for ways that may strengthen any relationship, even the great ones, this is what came to mind. Being able to effectively discuss the anxiety and actually listen to one another without being defensive, name calling, finger-pointing, or asking each other to change is a true gift.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-makes-a-good-marriage", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: Counseling provides a safe environment for people to explore the beliefs about the challenges in life. The various types(modalities/techniques) of counseling serve as guides for specific individual's personal journeys.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: Of course, I am a therapist, so I would think that! :) Seriously - I think therapy and counseling allow us to understand ourselves, our motivations and the things that bring us happiness and discontent. Therapy can create opportunities to try new skills and enhance positive attributes that are already present in someone. I like to think of therapy as an unbiased \"aerial view\" of our lives. Someone outside can often help us notice things we might otherwise miss.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Do I have to go to counseling to get hormones to transition from female to male? nan\nTherapist: I would like to add that transition looks different for everyone. For some folks, transition means hormones, surgery, voice work, electrolysis, and other medical interventions. For other individuals, it means some or none of that. It's an incredibly personal journey and only you (with the help of supportive individuals) can make those choices for yourself! I would also add that you DO NOT need to enter therapy to receive hormones, if you have access to what is called an informed consent clinic.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/do-i-have-to-go-to-counseling-to-get-hormones-to-transition-from-female-to-male", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How can I get \"out of my head\" and stop obsessive thoughts? Often times I find myself thinking scary thoughts and sometimes  I even scare myself into thinking that something bad is going to happen to me. Once it starts, the thought continues going through my head and I can't get it out.  How can I stop these thoughts?\nTherapist: You may be experiencing Intrusive thoughts. I can strongly recommend a book called \"When Panic Attacks\" by Dr. David Burns. There is another technique, called Thought Stopping. loudly (if you are alone) or in your head, if you are in public. I recommend using this technique, followed by some deep breathing, while visualizing something that helps you feel relaxed (a favorite place, a pet, etc.). These three things in conjunction can be of great assistance. Plenty of sleep and reducing caffeine intake can also be things to explore.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-out-of-my-head-and-stop-obsessive-thoughts", "topics": "Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: I have seen so many positive changes from those willing to engage in the counseling process. Having a safe place to openly share concerns with an objective listener really is therapeutic and can make a huge difference in your life. Many times people don't feel heard or validated by people in their lives, counseling call help validate your feelings and help you become more self-aware. You can learn new skills to better manage your life as well. I find the people who get the most out of it are the ones most willing to make changes.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Why can't I get an erection with my girlfriend? I love my girlfriend so much. I get an erection even just thinking about her or seeing her.  But the two times we tried to have sex I couldn't get an erection.  We've only had sex once and it was a long time ago.   Why this is happening and what can I do about it?\nTherapist: Sexual desire seems to be straightforward - I like someone and I become aroused at the thoughts of being intimate with them - but that idea does not always take into account other factors. Stress can have a huge effect on our body and how it performs. When we are overstressed, for example, we often find ourselves ill at the same time. You did not mention your age or sexual history outside of this relationship, but it is always a good idea to check in with medical staff to make sure there is nothing physically responsible for changes in our body, as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-get-an-erection-with-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I best fight the winter blues? Every winter I find myself getting sad because of the weather.  How can I fight this?\nTherapist: Seasonal Affective Disorder (S.A.D.) is a term that reflects how many people are affected by the changing seasons, especially fall to winter. Everyone suffers with some form of this (lessened activity levels, increased isolation, etc.) while some find that this time of year can put them into a deeper depression. Attend therapy to learn strategies and tools to help you to manage your mood. It's easy to go out and spend the day outside in the summer months, when the temperature is warm and the sun shines for long periods of the day, but it seems harder to find fun ways to spend your time when the temperature drops and darkness comes on so quickly.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-best-fight-the-winter-blues", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: I need help coping with depression as a result of stress. My depression has been reoccurring for a long time. It all started when I was being bullied in high school. I entered my first year of college in a really tough program with high demands of expected work. Whenever a problem arises, I get stressed and I feel hopeless, as if it's not going to get better. I have a hard time coping with stress because I know that if I could handle it easily then I wouldn't be sad all the time, and I would say and do the right thing instead of overreacting to my loved ones.\nTherapist: I couldn't help but notice that you did not specify your age, so I am unable to set the total chronological order and length that you have suffered in this way, but I want to start by commending you on seeking out additional coping techniques on your own. From what you have written, stress has always been a difficult thing for you to manage. Each of these aspects requires a separate sets of \"tools\" to manage them accordingly. Perhaps keeping a journal will help you to better understand why you are so easily overwhelmed by stress and help you track some of your less-helpful responses to stress.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-need-help-coping-with-depression-as-a-result-of-stress", "topics": "Depression,Stress"}, {"text": "User: How can I best fight the winter blues? Every winter I find myself getting sad because of the weather.  How can I fight this?\nTherapist: The name for the condition is Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD). You might want to see a therapist to assist you putting in place a behavioral program to help change the way you feel.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-best-fight-the-winter-blues", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my girlfriend? My girlfriend just quit drinking and she became really depressed. She told me that she wants to move. What can I do to help her?  I want her to stay.\nTherapist: After stopping the abuse of alcohol, depressive symptoms are common. She may benefit from exploring why she wants to move and see if she would still want to move if she did not feel depressed.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Relationships,Substance Abuse,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: Yes, counseling helps a lot of people, especially when there is a good rapport between the counselor and their client. Knowing your counselor is someone who is really on your side and wants to see you grow past your difficulties into a healthy, happy, successful life is more important than what kind of counseling method they use. If you are looking for a counselor, take your time and be sure you feel heard and respected as well as challenged to grow.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Why can't I get an erection with my girlfriend? I love my girlfriend so much. I get an erection even just thinking about her or seeing her.  But the two times we tried to have sex I couldn't get an erection.  We've only had sex once and it was a long time ago.   Why this is happening and what can I do about it?\nTherapist: This is something I have had to address with individuals often since working with couples is one of my practice's focuses. Finally, we would need to account for challenges that show up in the lower right quadrant (systems, laws, rules of society) such as your economic ability to try services and products as well as whether such services and products were even available. Once we have rolled through these areas it then becomes possible to look at which aspects might need to be looked at further in a more meaningful way to help you change a perspective or if just getting a blood pressure medication is all you need.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-get-an-erection-with-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I best fight the winter blues? Every winter I find myself getting sad because of the weather.  How can I fight this?\nTherapist: It seems like since the \"winter blues\" happens to you every year it may also be impacting your quality of life and possibly relationships. What you report sounds like you may be experiencing Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD) and is quite common to many from about fall thru winter seasons; but, also can impact folks during the Spring and summer months.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-best-fight-the-winter-blues", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why can't I get an erection with my girlfriend? I love my girlfriend so much. I get an erection even just thinking about her or seeing her.  But the two times we tried to have sex I couldn't get an erection.  We've only had sex once and it was a long time ago.   Why this is happening and what can I do about it?\nTherapist: First off, I want to acknowledge the emotional pain you must be experiencing about not being able to experience an erection -- you're not alone. If you haven't done so already I'd encourage you to checkout the Mayo Clinic's website on this very topic (http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/seasonal-affective-disorder/basics/definition/con-20021047).Once you've ruled out any medical-organic issues with either your PCP or Urologist I recommend you work with a Certified Sex Addiction Therapist (CSAT) and/or Certified Sex Therapist (CST) and do some psychotherapy around attachment/family-of-origin, intimacy, self-image, trauma history, sex history, pornography, etc. ).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-get-an-erection-with-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I best fight the winter blues? Every winter I find myself getting sad because of the weather.  How can I fight this?\nTherapist: There can be lots of different factors contributing to this. If you're looking for activities because you cannot participate in what you like to do in the warmer months, consider finding some indoor winter activitiesConnect with others. Certain types of light boxes are designed to help with the \"winter blues.\" If you find yourself having these days frequently or for several consecutive days in the above strategies are not helping, consider talking with a therapist about more specific strategies that may be of help to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-best-fight-the-winter-blues", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: A lot of things affect how helpful counseling is for each person, including at least these things, but often many others:The therapeutic alliance (this refers to the bond, connection, or trust between the client and the counselor)What the person is coming in to work onHow motivated the person is to work on what it is they would like to changeSome people also ask how counseling is different from friendship. There is a similarity in the sense that hopefully both counselors and friends will listen to what you are experiencing, but that is really the end of the similarities.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Can I sign my brother into a mental health facility? My brother has been diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia and has not been taking his medication. He's been using methamphetamine and alcohol and was found sleeping naked in my step mom driveway in 12 degree weather.  I was adopted in by his dad (who just passed) and his mother will not Get involved because she's afraid of financial responsibility.   Do I have the rights to be able to sign my brother into mentalhealth facility?\nTherapist: I know it can be really difficult to deal with issues like this. You can always call 911 if you are concerned about his immediate safety (for example if you find him sleeping outside in below freezing weather. As an alternative to calling 911, you might also be able to request an evaluation from an authorized mental health provider. The deatsils of who you would contact vary from state to state.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-sign-my-brother-into-a-mental-health-facility", "topics": "Family Conflict,Legal & Regulatory,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: Can I sign my brother into a mental health facility? My brother has been diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia and has not been taking his medication. He's been using methamphetamine and alcohol and was found sleeping naked in my step mom driveway in 12 degree weather.  I was adopted in by his dad (who just passed) and his mother will not Get involved because she's afraid of financial responsibility.   Do I have the rights to be able to sign my brother into mentalhealth facility?\nTherapist: I'm sorry to hear that your brother has been having such a rough time. I would suggest that you Google the state and county that you live in as well as some phrase similar to \"crisis hotline.\" They can tell you how it works in that county. My guess is that you could sign him in as long as he met the criteria for admission at that moment, but I can't \u00a0be entirely sure. I have not heard of that being a problem, but I guess it would depend on insurance.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-sign-my-brother-into-a-mental-health-facility", "topics": "Family Conflict,Legal & Regulatory,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: Is it wrong for me to be attracted to my girlfriend? I'm 15 and my girlfriend is 14. Am I a pedophile because I'm attracted to her and she's under 18?\nTherapist: You are both under 18 and your age is appropriate for a relationship. There would be a possible problem if she was 10 or younger. Pedophelia, is a whole other problem that you probably should not be worried about. I would be happy to talk with you in more detail about this.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-wrong-for-me-to-be-attracted-to-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Does it mean that he isn't the one God planned for me if we had sex as Christians? I'm a Christian teenage girl, and I have lost my virginity. I planned to abstain from sex but I guess I wasn't clear about this because I was also tempted and led him on. Does it mean that he isn't the one God planned for me? I really do feel like he is in my life for an important reason. I'm incredibly happy for I was able to escape from several abusive relationships because of him.\nTherapist: Having sex with your boyfriend is and was a mistake. Mistakes can be forgiven and you can make amends. But it is not the end of your relationship or God's will for you. Have a serious talk with your guy and get back on track with where you want to be. Getting back to square one could actually strengthen your relationship. Have a plan for the future where you will not be put into a place of temptation. Group dates, public places and no alone time where temptations might arise.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/does-it-mean-that-he-isn-t-the-one-god-planned-for-me-if-we-had-sex-as-christians", "topics": "Spirituality,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: Counseling can go a long way in improving your mental health. Talking about your problems with a counselor gives them substances and something to get a handle on. Talking about your problems gives you a chance look at your situation from a new angle to help solve your problems. The counselor is a neutral listener that can help give direction and answers to your needs. Counseling can help you solve your problems but also can set up a plan for the future. Counseling can help you to deal with things before they get out of hand.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: Counseling allows us to have a sacred space, a space that is set apart from the outside world, it is a space of non-judgement and exploration. It allows for greater reflection upon our attitudes, our behaviors and our feelings. Imagine if you will a small goldfish swimming around the usual fish tank, although I dont attest to know what a goldfish thinks, I would imagine he does not see the world outside of him, he only sees the small fishbowl, oblivious to the outside world, when one comes into the counseling room, one is trying to gain insight that was not previously there.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Why do I always get ignored by people? Every time I send a message to someone or a group message on Instagram, iMessage, or snapchat people will read my messages but then they won't answer me.   Could it be that there is something they don't like about me? I don't understand why they won't answer my messages. How do I get people to respond to me?\nTherapist: I'm sorry that you are having a difficult time. I wonder about how your friendships are in person. If you get along well with people and have effective conversations with them face-to-face, there could be some kind of technology-related problem. Have you tried gently talking to people about how you send a message and they didn't answer? If you can phrase it in such a way that they recognize that you are asking for information and not blaming them for not answering you, that could be effective. I'd also encourage you to consider how much this is bothering you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-always-get-ignored-by-people", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid family members who stress me out? My mother takes care of niece whom my sister abandoned. She calls me every day complaining, but I don't want to hear it anymore.\nTherapist: It is understandable that it's very hard for you to hear daily complaints from your mother regarding the caregiving of your niece. It must be equally hard for your mother to assume full responsibility for your niece at a time where your sister cannot take care of her. Not knowing the history of your relationship with your mother and how you respond to each other in times of need, it may be difficult to fight the right recommendation on how to deal with this situation. After sharing this message of empathy and encouragement to seek help, the next step is to protect yourself by explaining to your mother where your limits are so that she understands what she can expect from you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-family-members-who-stress-me-out", "topics": "Family Conflict,Stress"}, {"text": "User: I've never been able to talk with my parents. My parents are in their sixties while I am a teenager. I love both of them but not their personalities. I feel that they do not take me seriously whenever I talk about a serious event in my life. If my dad doesn\u2019t believe me, then my mom goes along with my dad and acts like she doesn\u2019t believe me either. I know they have their own problems, which I do my best to help with. But they don't always try to help me with mine, when I really need them. I feel as if my childhood has been taken from me.\nTherapist: Teenage years are rough for anyone, and this is a time for self-discovery and experimentation. Having older parents can certainly pose challenges. They're from a completely different generation than you are. Who you are and how you feel about yourself needs to come from inside, not from outside. One way you can have a better relationship with your parents is to stop looking at all the things you aren't getting from them that you want, and rather look at all the things you are getting from them. Yes, this is a glass half full or half empty point of view, but it works. Find the strength within yourself rather than looking to others in your life to make you feel better or feel like a complete person.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-people-to-listen", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict,Depression,Stress,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I help myself and change my behavior? I've hit my head on walls and floors ever since I was young.  I sometimes still do it but I don't exactly know why,   I have anxiety and I had a rough childhood but now I'll start to hit my head and sometimes not realize it but I don't know how to stop or even why I'm doing it.   How can I help myself to change my behavior?\nTherapist: The best way to handle anxiety of this level is with a combination of appropriate medication given to you by a medical doctor, and therapy to help you understand the thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that are causing the anxiety. This is not something that anyone should just \u201cwhite knuckle\u201d and try to get through on their own with no help. Anyone who has experienced trauma like this, especially long-term ongoing trauma from abuse of any kind, definitely does not need \"exposure therapy\", which is what is recommended for phobias. You need a therapist trained specifically in trauma informed therapy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-myself-and-change-my-behavior", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over a person I fell in love with? I know that I need to get past my feelings for this person I fell in love with, but t's so difficult to move on because he showed me feelings I've never felt before.   I feel like I don't  want to be without my genuine love for him, but logically, I know I need to be without him. I can't discuss this with anybody in my life because the conditions surrounding our love are considered  \"wrong\" by a lot of people.  How can I get myself to just move on?\nTherapist: It's difficult to move on and let go, especially when you've experienced things for the first time with someone, or feelings you've never felt before, as you said. Feelings can take time to fade, but you seem to understand, even if it is subconsciously, that it's the feelings he stirred up in you that are keeping you tied to him, not necessarily the person himself. You're wanting those feelings and wanting a relationship - but with him necessarily? Don't try to force him or anyone else into a role that is meant for someone else. Cherish the memories and the experiences you had.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-a-person-i-fell-in-love-with", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid family members who stress me out? My mother takes care of niece whom my sister abandoned. She calls me every day complaining, but I don't want to hear it anymore.\nTherapist: Buy the book \"Boundaries: Where You End and I Begin.\" You're not wrong to \"not want to hear it anymore\" but if you don't maintain healthy boundaries, you will allow your family to make you feel guilty for \"not wanting to hear it anymore\".", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-family-members-who-stress-me-out", "topics": "Family Conflict,Stress"}, {"text": "User: How can I make the voices stop? I don't remember when the voices in my head started, but I remember Hearing them when I was little.   I know it's not normal to hear voices that aren't your own. I fight the voices and I want them to stop.  They've been here so long and I want them gone. How can I make the voices stop?\nTherapist: This isn't something you can do on your own. Many diseases, illnesses, and conditions can cause hallucinations. A lot of people that hear or see things that aren't there are not able to have the awareness that these things are not real. They fully believe what they're hearing/seeing. Because you have the awareness that you do, I feel this is a very good sign that with treatment you can live a normal life (assuming you are not already receiving treatment for it. Always talk to your doctor when it seems your symptoms are getting worse so that they can make the necessary medication adjustments for you).If at any time the voices are telling you to do something, please go to an ER as this is an emergency.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-the-voices-stop", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: I don't know how to communicate with my adult daughter. There is  just no communication at all between us.  She sleeps constantly all day (not at night).  She acts angry and unfocused and stays in her very messy room all the time. The only time she comes out is to eat.   She has aches and fatigue, weight gain, hair loss and skin problems. She does not look after her health.  I don't know how to communicate with her.  She is not open to any suggestions. How do I get through to her?\nTherapist: What you're describing could be any number of things, but could potentially be a medical issue that needs attention. You may be inadvertently making things worse by \"helping\" her which can instead enable her to continue her behaviors. Another book you may find helpful is \"Boundaries: Where you end and I begin\". If we were having this conversation in person, you would interrupt me at this point with a \"but...\" and then explain all the reasons why you can't tell her to move out, get a job, get up and cook or clean the house, etc. As a parent, we want to force them to do what we think is \"the right thing\" but trying to do that only results in frustrations for everyone involved.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-know-how-to-communicate-with-my-adult-daughter", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationships,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Can I sign my brother into a mental health facility? My brother has been diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia and has not been taking his medication. He's been using methamphetamine and alcohol and was found sleeping naked in my step mom driveway in 12 degree weather.  I was adopted in by his dad (who just passed) and his mother will not Get involved because she's afraid of financial responsibility.   Do I have the rights to be able to sign my brother into mentalhealth facility?\nTherapist: Family members sometimes get Power of Attorney over vulnerable adults. They can help set him up with appointments for psych and he can get on medications. However, you can't force him to take the meds, so this may be something that happens a lot. If you do get Power of Attorney, take the paperwork with you when you go to the ER and to doctor's appointments because they aren't just going to take your word. Keep in mind that if you do get Power of Attorney, this makes you his guardian and you have to take care of him.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-sign-my-brother-into-a-mental-health-facility", "topics": "Family Conflict,Legal & Regulatory,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: Is it wrong for me to be attracted to my girlfriend? I'm 15 and my girlfriend is 14. Am I a pedophile because I'm attracted to her and she's under 18?\nTherapist: What would be wrong is if you did anything to her against her will. Always remember that NO means NO, respect her, respect yourself, and be a normal teenager! Although it is frowned upon by a lot of people, it's no secret that teenagers do have sex (even if their parents and perhaps religion would definitely not want them to do it). Just be responsible in the choices you make. Wrong\" can be defined in a lot of different ways, though. It's okay to just be with her and enjoy her company.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-wrong-for-me-to-be-attracted-to-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I've never been able to talk with my parents. My parents are in their sixties while I am a teenager. I love both of them but not their personalities. I feel that they do not take me seriously whenever I talk about a serious event in my life. If my dad doesn\u2019t believe me, then my mom goes along with my dad and acts like she doesn\u2019t believe me either. I know they have their own problems, which I do my best to help with. But they don't always try to help me with mine, when I really need them. I feel as if my childhood has been taken from me.\nTherapist: First, thank you for sharing such deep personal information. However, I think a couple things can be done to try to address this. If you want support1) Parents- Sit down with one of them and tell them with all seriousness that you need to talk about something that is affecting you deeply. Perhaps speaking to both can be too much for one room. If you try to speak to mom or dad by themselves, it may create that intimate atmosphere needed to understand where you are coming from.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-people-to-listen", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict,Depression,Stress,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid family members who stress me out? My mother takes care of niece whom my sister abandoned. She calls me every day complaining, but I don't want to hear it anymore.\nTherapist: I just want to understand before I answer.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-family-members-who-stress-me-out", "topics": "Family Conflict,Stress"}, {"text": "User: I feel completely alone in my marriage. I have been married for 11 years. Within the past 2 years we have drifted far apart. We coexist together but there is very little personal interest in each other. I often feel that my husband has \"friends\" at work that he is more emotional invested in than me. I feel very alone and just uncared for.  Is there anything I can do to feel reconnected?\nTherapist: Your question shows that you are going through a lot of pain and I'm sorry for that. Many couples go through this disconnect and hope to come to reconnect before things get to a breaking point. What I think can help is the following:\u00a01.) Understand what his primary concern is2.) Be honest about your concern with him having friends (Be ready for honesty)6.) Help him understand you feel alone without him feeling guilty.7.) Let him know how committed you are to making this relationship despite the two of you drifting apart.8.)", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-completely-alone-in-my-marriage", "topics": "Marriage,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: Why do I always get ignored by people? Every time I send a message to someone or a group message on Instagram, iMessage, or snapchat people will read my messages but then they won't answer me.   Could it be that there is something they don't like about me? I don't understand why they won't answer my messages. How do I get people to respond to me?\nTherapist: Sorry to hear your friends aren't responding to you. If these friends are in-person as well as online, perhaps going to them in person and asking talking to them about your concern. Perhaps it's the way you send messages or the way they are receiving them. if they say no, then a simple request to respond to your messages. Measure the result and notice if there are even small differences. Also understand, why this is so important to you. Ask yourself, why it's so important for you to receive these messages from friends. What does it mean when they don't respond.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-always-get-ignored-by-people", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it wrong for me to be attracted to my girlfriend? I'm 15 and my girlfriend is 14. Am I a pedophile because I'm attracted to her and she's under 18?\nTherapist: You are both under the appropriate age where it would be seen so. Your both only a year a part so this shouldn't a worry to you. Like Frank said below, Pedophelia is a problem that won't apply to this situation.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-wrong-for-me-to-be-attracted-to-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over a person I fell in love with? I know that I need to get past my feelings for this person I fell in love with, but t's so difficult to move on because he showed me feelings I've never felt before.   I feel like I don't  want to be without my genuine love for him, but logically, I know I need to be without him. I can't discuss this with anybody in my life because the conditions surrounding our love are considered  \"wrong\" by a lot of people.  How can I get myself to just move on?\nTherapist: One of the most challenging areas for people to deal with is getting over the the person you have loved so much. You know mentally that it's not healthy to think about them. If not, go out and maybe it's time to date and find new love. Grow with new relationships and it will help create focus on someone who may even be better than the love you previously experienced.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-a-person-i-fell-in-love-with", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: About a year ago I found out my husband had cheated on me. Cheating is something unacceptable for me but because we have two daughters I decided not to break up the family. However, now I am struggling to forget and forgive what happened. I feel like I cannot trust him. Without trust, I cannot stay in this relationship. On the other hand, I do not want my children to get hurt. I'm not sure how to move forward?\nTherapist: To begin, I'm sorry to hear about your situation. There are things you can do to help yourself. The first this is identifying what you feel is best for yourself and your children. Do you feel that by staying in the relationship\u00a0that it's affecting your daily interaction with them. Rather, you are being transparent to them. Couple therapy can be beneficial as well as a therapist can provide professional counseling to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/about-a-year-ago-i-found-out-my-husband-had-cheated-on-me", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a couple to overcome cheating if it only happened once? My fianc\u00e9 and I have been together for 3 years and our relationship has always been good. The only issue we had was that he felt like he wasn't getting enough sexual attention from me.   I recently found out he cheated on me with another women.  He says he wants his family back but I'm confused on what to do.  Is it possible for us to get past the cheating, or should I just move on?\nTherapist: Many couples that experience infidelity in their relationship face this important question - \"is it possible for us to get past the cheating, or should I just move on?\" The betrayed partner might be overwhelmed by intrusive thoughts - Wanting answers to specific questions - Wanting details. While it is possible for couples to get past the cheating, it does take a commitment from each partner to do the work needed. Because of the complexities cheating has on the bond couples have with each other, I would recommend seeing a couple therapist that specializes in working with the issue of infidelity. When infidelity happens, there are usually a number of secrets that accompany it, and this can be incredibly difficult for couples to work through on their own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-couple-to-overcome-cheating-if-it-only-happened-once", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a couple to overcome cheating if it only happened once? My fianc\u00e9 and I have been together for 3 years and our relationship has always been good. The only issue we had was that he felt like he wasn't getting enough sexual attention from me.   I recently found out he cheated on me with another women.  He says he wants his family back but I'm confused on what to do.  Is it possible for us to get past the cheating, or should I just move on?\nTherapist: Finding out about an affair is quite an emotional experience. I encourage you to give yourself some compassion about emotions that you have. There are certain ways that both of you could learn more about yourselves and each other that may actually serve to make your relationship stronger. Sometimes there are motivations for having an affair that can be discussed in therapy in a way that you become more aware of what each other is experiencing and where you want to go from here. It could be that learning to communicate differently would be helpful. Regarding whether you should \"just move on,\" I recommend talking about with a therapist as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-couple-to-overcome-cheating-if-it-only-happened-once", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: What makes a good marriage? What makes a healthy marriage last?\nTherapist: A resource I think is helpful to learn more about \"what makes a good marriage\" and steps toward doing so is Dr. John Gottman's book: \"Seven Principles for Making Marriage Work.\" Dr. Gottman is a leader in this field and has done extensive studies with couples to determine what behaviors are key in making a marriage work and what behaviors could predict divorce. I think this book might be a good start if you're wanting to learn more about how to have a long lasting relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-makes-a-good-marriage", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: I believe that counseling (and finding a GOOD therapist) will be of significant help when the individual seeking therapy desires change, improvement, and overall growth. Most counseling involves homework and a level of commitment outside of session that also contributes to resolution of problems and an ability to cope with stresses in a productive way. Here are some of the key ways that therapy can help. Not everyone likes to share their problems with close friends or family members. A good therapist usually will not directly point their client in the direction they need to go. These include but are not limited to relaxation techniques, breathing exercises, development of healthy routines, using mindfulness, improving communication skills, and recognizing and changing maladaptive thought patterns.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I've never been able to talk with my parents. My parents are in their sixties while I am a teenager. I love both of them but not their personalities. I feel that they do not take me seriously whenever I talk about a serious event in my life. If my dad doesn\u2019t believe me, then my mom goes along with my dad and acts like she doesn\u2019t believe me either. I know they have their own problems, which I do my best to help with. But they don't always try to help me with mine, when I really need them. I feel as if my childhood has been taken from me.\nTherapist: One of the most difficult challenges we face is not being heard! While your parents surely love you and want to understand you, it may be difficult for them to fully understand your feelings and experiences. They are quite a bit older and have likely not dealt with some of the struggles that you face. I would suggest communicating your feelings to them about not being heard. Let them know you have something important to get off your chest. Instead of beginning your statements with \"you\" try using \"I\" by letting them know how their behavior effects you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-people-to-listen", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict,Depression,Stress,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with my depression? I know I need to deal with my depression. But I don't know how and I don't want to tell anyone.   How can I deal with depression without telling anyone?\nTherapist: Hello,It is completely understandable that you would not want people to know about your depression. Depression can feel debilitating and overwhelming. The great news is that with professional help you can feel better and you will learn how deal with and manage the depression. This can be done in a private and confidential setting. The therapist can then discuss your depression with you in more detail to figure out the underlying cause, how long you've been feeling this way and identify what brings on these feelings. The therapist will be able to offer professional insight and perspective on the situation and help you think outside the box.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-my-depression-2", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I open things up with a therapist without fearing judgment and condescension? I have several issues that I need to work through. However, I am afraid of and do not trust therapists after a horrible experience. I'm dealing with grief and guilt over losing my sons due to drug use. I have a very complicated traumatic relationship issue that is causing me severe anxiety and fear.\nTherapist: Therapy should be a healthy positive experience off g growth. I'm able to offer ways of thinking and strategies to my clients they may not have thought of. You should feel comfortable speaking your thoughts, my advice would look one who open hearing toy feel, even it's regarding them a therapist. I do this is because I feel that clients deserve opportunity observe the environment, ask me questions and have the opportunity to determine their level of comfort and decide if it's a good fit. It is worth your time reading because you are WORTH FINDING THE BEST HELP AVAILABLE!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-open-things-up-with-a-therapist-without-fearing-judgment-and-condescension", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Trauma,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I make the voices stop? I don't remember when the voices in my head started, but I remember Hearing them when I was little.   I know it's not normal to hear voices that aren't your own. I fight the voices and I want them to stop.  They've been here so long and I want them gone. How can I make the voices stop?\nTherapist: First, let me express my support and compassion for what you're going through. Hearing voices can be incredibly difficult and can feel like you can't get a moment's peace, even in the privacy of your own mind. Some people are having results with a talk-therapist to develop coping strategies. There is peer-run organization and a general approach that attempts to live with voices in a different way. Best wishes to you,Karen Keys, LMHC, CASAC", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-the-voices-stop", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with my alcoholic boyfriend with a dark past? We're in an eight year relationship. My boyfriend drinks a lot. He experienced childhood trauma. I don't know how to deal with violent outbursts.\nTherapist: First, let me extend my compassion to both of you -- it sounds like you have a lot on your plates. Childhood trauma carries its negative effects into our adulthood and affects everyone who loves us. From my experiences treating many people with your boyfriend's experiences, the short, healthy answer is that you can't fix the situation and maybe not even be able to help. What you can\u00a0do, is take care of yourself. Let me say again that you also would benefit from some good insight and support as you continue your journey. Wishing you and your boyfriend healing and recovery.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-my-alcoholic-boyfriend-with-a-dark-past", "topics": "Anger Management,Relationships,Substance Abuse,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: Can I sign my brother into a mental health facility? My brother has been diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia and has not been taking his medication. He's been using methamphetamine and alcohol and was found sleeping naked in my step mom driveway in 12 degree weather.  I was adopted in by his dad (who just passed) and his mother will not Get involved because she's afraid of financial responsibility.   Do I have the rights to be able to sign my brother into mentalhealth facility?\nTherapist: Hello, My heart goes out to you, your brother, and your family, dealing with a very painful and difficult situation. If they agree that he would benefit from hospitalization (and it sounds like they would), he can be held in the hospital for up to 72 hours, whether he agrees or not. Hospitals are highly pressured to discharge people quickly but they can not discharge a homeless person without someplace to go. If your brother has a psychiatrist, that person should be actively involved. I had a patient patched-and-released three times, in spite of my advocacy and him literally begging\u00a0to remain and stop his voices.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-sign-my-brother-into-a-mental-health-facility", "topics": "Family Conflict,Legal & Regulatory,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: How do I help my husband get over his drinking addiction? nan\nTherapist: It's not easy to be married to an alcoholic and I want to extend my support to you. However, addiction is a \"family disease\", so you are definitely connected to it. It is safe to say that you are likely to have a role as a \"co-dependent\" or \"enabler\". From calling out sick for the person when they're hung-over to allowing money to pay for alcohol, to simply remaining in the relationship, these are all behaviors that make the addiction more likely to continue. Pain in our present circumstance is a requirement to achieve change. Many people find that an addiction removes the addict from the relationship -- they're not really there, even if they appear to be.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-help-my-husband-get-over-his-drinking-addiction", "topics": "Addiction"}, {"text": "User: I feel stuck in life. What can I do? I am in my 30s with 2 kids and no job and I'm behind on the bills. I've been trying everything with no results. I feel like everyone else  puts their needs in front on mine. I give intil it hurts and I'm afraid that I'm going to fail my babies   I've been struggling for 5 yrs in a relationship with no communication and no alone time. How can I get some support?\nTherapist: I would want to know where do you put your needs? Often times we show people how to treat us based on how we treat ourselves. First identify how to practice good self care which can only happen when you are authentic and real about your needs and desires. You cannot pour from an empty cup and must take find the time to explore your purpose in life. It may be helpful to seek out additional support to work on your intrapersonal relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-stuck-in-life-what-can-i-do", "topics": "Relationships,Family Conflict,Parenting,Stress"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid family members who stress me out? My mother takes care of niece whom my sister abandoned. She calls me every day complaining, but I don't want to hear it anymore.\nTherapist: It is difficult to implement healthy boundaries when the person is a parent or family member. I would encourage you to identify how it makes you feel after talking with your mother. Maybe setting a time limit to talk with your mother and practicing how to be assertive and not disrespect or aggressive. Maybe asking your mom how can you be supportive of her during this time other than listening to her vent. It may also be helpful for your mother to get connected with support groups to help her cope with this life change.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-family-members-who-stress-me-out", "topics": "Family Conflict,Stress"}, {"text": "User: How can I best fight the winter blues? Every winter I find myself getting sad because of the weather.  How can I fight this?\nTherapist: Seasonal depression can be difficult due to the weather being a primary trigger. Understanding that we have very little control over the weather, therefore we can focus on the things we can change. Exercising, meditation, guided imagery, and deep breathing can be beneficial to combat seasonal depression. It may help to join a support group and seek out therapy to assist you on this healing journey.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-best-fight-the-winter-blues", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I move on? I'm obsessing about a terrible breakup. Everything is a constant reminder.  How do I move on?\nTherapist: The best way to move on is to give yourself sufficient time and space away from your ex so you can heal. That means no checking out your ex on social media platforms and no contact. In order to move on and diminish the obsessions, help yourself recognize and accept that the relationship is over, and make sure to get sufficient support in processing all your feelings. Sometimes people obsess because they have difficulties accepting what's already taken place and want things to be different.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-move-on-2", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: How do I handle being wanted in a relationship when I'm used to feeling unwanted? I've always thought that there wasn't much good out there for me. Now that things are actually going well, it kind of scares me. I spent most of my life feeling unwanted and figured I would be alone. I recently met a great woman who seems to really like me, and I don't know how to process this. It's bothering both of us.\nTherapist: It's tough to be in a healthy and loving relationship when we believe we are not worth it. First, I want to say you are very brave to open up yourself to the relationship with this wonderful woman you met. Acknowledge that what you are doing is scary and uncomfortable and that it will take some time to get used to it. It's important that you are patient with yourself and tolerant of your discomfort. With time, space, kindness, and tolerance your discomfort and fear will start to dissolve. The worst thing that you or your partner can do is to rush your feelings, pressure you to feel in a different way or to say that there is something wrong with you cause you feel a certain way.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-being-wanted-in-a-relationship-when-i-m-used-to-feeling-unwanted", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: PTSD is impacting my whole life. I have PTSD. The side effects are really bad and have impacts on sex, anger and my relationships.  I even lost my job month ago.   How can I get my life back?\nTherapist: Hi there,\u00a0I hear you, PTSD has a very\u00a0debilitating effect on your whole life. Recovering from it is possible and doable! First is step is to acknowledge to yourself that your PTSD symptoms are a normal reaction to an abnormal and traumatic event. It's important that you don't blame yourself or your body for reacting this way, rather approach yourself with\u00a0compassion\u00a0and kindness that you would extend a\u00a0friend\u00a0who is hurting. It has concrete exercises that you can do to help you eliminate dissociation, feel grounded, and decrease your anxiety response.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/ptsd-is-impacting-my-whole-life", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid family members who stress me out? My mother takes care of niece whom my sister abandoned. She calls me every day complaining, but I don't want to hear it anymore.\nTherapist: This sounds like a possible boundary issue. We have the ability to rethink them and change them as needed. Once we review the issue and decide what we need (create the boundary), I suggest opening talking with the person when everyone is calm (not in the middle of a stressful moment when we often are unable to focus and hear the other person). I would appreciate it if you would not bring it up anymore. Once we let ourselves know what we need, then let the other people know our new boundary, then it is up to us to follow through. It is also appropriate to reconsider and change your boundary as needed.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-family-members-who-stress-me-out", "topics": "Family Conflict,Stress"}, {"text": "User: I over endulge when I drink alcohol and feel extremely guilty about it the next day. I'm a female in my mid 20s.  Lately I tend to over drink and I've become a very angry drunk.   In the past, I have even cheated on my boyfriend while I was under the influence of alcohol.   But now, even if I don't do anything wrong and don't embarrass myself, I still feel really guilty after a night of drinking. I don't understand why I'm feeling this way. Does this mean I have a problem?\nTherapist: Hello, I commend you for your courage in taking a look at the role alcohol has in your life. It sounds like you're concerned about what happens when you drink too much and I suspect you already know the answer to your question about whether you have a problem or not. I don't have information to know if \"addiction\" or \"dependence\" or other words would best describe where you are with drinking, but it sounds like it's begun to have some negatives, so forgive me using words like addict, dependence and so on. One of the ways to think about substance (mis)use is to think of addiction as a disease of avoidance. Let me repeat that: it is a disease of avoidance. Wishing you the best health and wellness.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-over-endulge-when-i-drink-alcohol-and-feel-extremely-guilty-about-it-the-next-day", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How should I handle the child I had with my ex-wife? My ex-wife married and used me to have a child. She now uses that child as a pawn. I know my child misses me, but I need to move on and not live in the past. How do I do this? Do I see my child as much as possible or very little? Is it more confusing for the child?\nTherapist: You're in a difficult situation and on behalf of you and your child, I commend you for trying to find the right thing to do. Short version: your child needs you as much as possible. We used to think that children were almost always harmed by divorce, unless there was extreme conflict or violence. In other words, the damaging part is losing half of themselves and losing the value of being connected to everyone who loves them, especially the other parent, in addition to the extra benefit there is from the other parent's perspective, strengths and so on. If you and your wife have different rules and so on, your child will learn to adjust and adapt, just as they would if you remained in the household.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-should-i-handle-the-child-i-had-with-my-ex-wife", "topics": "Parenting,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: My parents are getting a divorce and I feel depressed. I am going through a very hard time and I'm so depressed. My parents are getting a divorce and a lot of bad things are happening. I want to lull myself.\nTherapist: It sounds like a tough time and it's normal to feel down when your family is going through a divorce or other hardship. There's a difference between feelings like sadness, discouragement, grief, loneliness and depression, though. Sadness is sadness and sometimes we have to go through a grieving or other process, that is a normal reaction to events in our lives. Depression, on the other hand, is more about being stuck. So as to the uncomfortable but healthy part of your feelings, do the best you can to put names to it and share with a trusted other person.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-parents-are-getting-a-divorce-and-i-feel-depressed", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I handle being wanted in a relationship when I'm used to feeling unwanted? I've always thought that there wasn't much good out there for me. Now that things are actually going well, it kind of scares me. I spent most of my life feeling unwanted and figured I would be alone. I recently met a great woman who seems to really like me, and I don't know how to process this. It's bothering both of us.\nTherapist: You're in a lot of good company and it's great that you're in a positive relationship. We often seem to blame ourselves for not \"loving ourselves\" enough or put ourselves down for having low self esteem. now I love myself, where there was an empty space or self-doubt before. These fears of loss may get in your way, however understandable. Such a conversation may bring you both closer. You're working on co-creating a new normal with a great woman.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-handle-being-wanted-in-a-relationship-when-i-m-used-to-feeling-unwanted", "topics": "Self-esteem,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: It is totally normal - you have a lot riding on this and you're invested! Think about why you feel so shaky - is it something about the therapist or their style? If so, it would be a good idea to talk with them about it so you feel more at ease. In any case bringing up your feelings about therapy in\u00a0therapy is totally appropriate and even necessary.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: I would be more concerned with how is this being addressed in therapy. Therapy can be a rewarding process, however often times we do not pay much attention to the messages being sent to our bodies. I believe in somatic therapy which deals with our mind & body connection. I would think it may not be a question of normal or abnormal however if it is impacting you then you must pay attention to that. It may be something that needs addressing to help alleviate those feelings or have a better understanding of why they are showing up when it is time for therapy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: It's completely normal and natural to feel nervous before a therapy session. I can't say enough regarding the amount of courage it takes to reach out and attend a therapy session. For many people, it can take weeks, months, or even years of contemplating whether to see a therapist or not before actually contacting one and attending the first session. If you feel comfortable with your therapist and it's a good fit for you, I would suggest talking about this with your therapist. You don't have to struggle each time you have your appointment.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: Everyone has different experiences going to therapy. Being nervous can be a typical emotion one might feel. Emotions are our body's way of telling us important information about ourselves. I would suggest talking openly in your sessions about this. That way you can process your thoughts and feelings with the guidance of your counselor. There are probably underlining emotions (fears or insecurities) that are being stirred up during your therapy sessions. In individual therapy you would have time to deal with your own stressors. As you address your issues, then you will have tools and skills that will be useful in addressing the couple relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: It's absolutely ok to feel nervous going to therapy. I have experienced anxiety going to see my own therapist. First, it is always unnerving to see a person who is a stranger and to share intimate things with that stranger. You mentioned it has only been a couple of sessions. Someone might bully or ridicule us, and that experience can stay with us for a long time, making it extra scary to share our intimate feelings and thoughts with others. Having an open dialogue about your anxiety with your therapist can help you resolve some of that anxiety and built greater trust with your therapist.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How can I have a better sex life when I don't like sex? My husband and I have been married for seven years, and in that time, we have only had sex four or five times. Others have told me that most men would have left me by now. Honestly, I think I have a low sex drive or neither one of us actually knows what we are doing. I want to be better connected with my husband.\nTherapist: Hi there,\u00a0Thank you for your openness about the challenge you are experiencing in your relationship. The first step would be to have an open conversation with your husband. It's important you are both open about what you desire from sexual intimacy and how much intimacy each one of you wants. The point of the conversation is to get to know each other and not to solve a problem, yet. There are couples who enjoy fulfilling platonic/friendship relationships with minimal or no sex because both partners are not interested in it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-better-sex-life-when-i-don-t-like-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How do I move on? I'm obsessing about a terrible breakup. Everything is a constant reminder.  How do I move on?\nTherapist: Hi,\u00a0Break ups can be very devastating and even traumatic. It's important that you don't compare yourself to others. Here are a few tips to help with your recovery:\u00a01. The last thing that we want to do when we are physically sick (e.g. flu) is to take care of ourselves even thought that's what we need the most. There is a lot of wisdom in the saying \"Out of Sight, Out of Mind.\" Now it's time to bring out that dusty bucket list and start trying something new.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-move-on-2", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: \"Normal\" can be an insidious word to use because it can undermine your sense of worth. Instead, what I'd recommend is to pay attention to your emotional experiences when you're attending therapy. Explore your feelings and thoughts without judgement and try to reflect and understand what's going on that's causing you anxiety. Once you figure out the underlying meaning of the anxiety, you can figure out a way to handle it and action steps to take to diminish it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: You ask about being nervous and shaky walking in to your therapy session and want to know if its normal? ... I presume you weren't\u00a0anticipating feeling this way; and probably hoped to feel the opposite..\u00a0 Well, my initial response is yes, sure, it can be within reason to feel this way. But either way; new or not, I think when are entering into a meeting that holds potential evaluation of deep things about you and your heart and soul, it can cause anyone to tremble. OR, is there something about the therapist you don't feel confident about? Let me knowKindly,keithkeithcounseling.com", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: It's normal to feel a little anxiety--after all it's an important encounter for you. My suggestion is to discuss this with your therapist, let him/her know how you're feeling, especially if you feel as though your level of anxiety is impacting the quality and benefit of your sessions. You might try some relaxation techniques prior to starting the session, deep breathing, progressive relaxation, core muscle dis-engagement--If you're not familiar with these techniques ask your therapist or write back.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How do you overcome an embarrassing mistake and forgive yourself? I am becoming a Water Safety Instructor but I didn't have enough for a proper swimsuit. I was told by a boy in class that my top was displaying everything. I was very embarrassed.\nTherapist: As far as I can tell, you received unwanted attention, but you didn't do anything wrong. If you don't want his attention then you have a couple of choices--wear a shirt \u00a0over the swim top, find an inexpensive swim top to replace the one you have, or wear what you have as long as the instructor doesn't say anything, and if you get unwanted attention say in as confident, slightly loud, voice as you can muster.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-overcome-an-embarrassing-mistake-and-forgive-yourself", "topics": "Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How should I handle the child I had with my ex-wife? My ex-wife married and used me to have a child. She now uses that child as a pawn. I know my child misses me, but I need to move on and not live in the past. How do I do this? Do I see my child as much as possible or very little? Is it more confusing for the child?\nTherapist: If you have a good relationship with your child then you have already accepted and been accepted as this child's parent and you have a commitment and an obligation to play that role. If you suddenly absent yourself from this child's life then you may be doing real damage. Working out an arrangement with the child's mother for regular visits the child can count on and committed to by both parents will serve the best interest of the child, which I assume is what both parents are truly concerned with. The visits don't have to be every day, once a week, even once a month, is better than hit and miss with long absences in between.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-should-i-handle-the-child-i-had-with-my-ex-wife", "topics": "Parenting,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: How do I get my husband to listen to me? I'm always listening to my husband, but it feels like he never listens to me.   How do I get my husband to listen to me instead of me listening to him all the time?\nTherapist: Have the two of you ever discussed how you feel? He needs to understand that how you feel about this issue equates to not being as happy in the relationship as you could be or he thinks you are. Direct opener: \u00a0I'm not as happy in this relationship as I think we both deserve. Pause, and if you won't let me talk about it then it's only going to get worse. If he refuses, \u00a0tell him you want to seek couples counseling then do it, with him or without him.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-husband-to-listen-to-me", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I'm attracted to my boss. I've been suppressing it for quite some time, but there are days when I can't make eye contact with her. I think she knows, and we both admitted there was some type of vibe, but the overall discussion was vague. I think she could possibly be dating someone that works with us. It's driving me crazy. As an act of expression, I have purchased a gift for her that's personalized. I haven't given it to her yet.\nTherapist: There are many possible ways dating your boss could go awry and jeopardize your occupational well-being so my recommendation is to hold off on presenting your boss with a personalized gift and instead focus on building attraction and romantic interest with someone who is not at the workplace. Sometimes the element of power and unavailability can heighten our sexual interest but that doesn't mean it's a healthy idea to pursue someone who is in a position of power over you at your workplace.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-attracted-to-my-boss", "topics": "Relationships,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I've never been able to talk with my parents. My parents are in their sixties while I am a teenager. I love both of them but not their personalities. I feel that they do not take me seriously whenever I talk about a serious event in my life. If my dad doesn\u2019t believe me, then my mom goes along with my dad and acts like she doesn\u2019t believe me either. I know they have their own problems, which I do my best to help with. But they don't always try to help me with mine, when I really need them. I feel as if my childhood has been taken from me.\nTherapist: I'm sorry you feel so alone and isolated, those feelings in and of themselves can lead to depression, stress and anxiety. So job one is finding someone you can talk to. There are many of us now who do on-line, FaceTime, phone counseling so that is an option to consider in your situation. Then begin to write down the points you want to make such as: \u00a0 I love you, and I know you love me but I don't feel as though I can trust your love to be unconditional enough to tell you who I really am, and how I really feel.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-people-to-listen", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict,Depression,Stress,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less dependent on my boyfriend? My boyfriend and I have been dating for almost 2 years. I've been really sad lately and for the past few months I've realized I'm just way too dependent on him.   It makes me really upset to be so dependent on someone else, but I can't help it. I don't even know who I am without him.  How can I be less dependent on my him?\nTherapist: Recognizing that you're too dependent on your boyfriend can be a wakeup call and an excellent opportunity to work on your own personal growth and independence. It sounds like it's time to explore and develop your own interests and engage in some activities that excite and challenge you. If you have time, it could be useful to begin a new activity or class, cultivate friendships outside of your relationship with your boyfriend, and begin to reflect and meditate on ways to enhance your own personal fulfillment.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-dependent-on-my-boyfriend", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I have a better sex life when I don't like sex? My husband and I have been married for seven years, and in that time, we have only had sex four or five times. Others have told me that most men would have left me by now. Honestly, I think I have a low sex drive or neither one of us actually knows what we are doing. I want to be better connected with my husband.\nTherapist: In order to develop a better intimate connection with your husband, it's important to first cultivate a strong connection with yourself. I would take some time to explore your own body, notice what feels pleasurable, and play with different ways to achieve orgasm on your own. Explore your own willingness to be open emotionally, sexually, and to play and have fun. Are there specific reasons you're not enjoying sex with your husband? Sometimes the reasons might be of a sexual nature and other times there could be emotional blocks (or anxiety) or other reasons that prevent you from wanting to be fully open and let go with your partner.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-have-a-better-sex-life-when-i-don-t-like-sex", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: Many of my clients are nervous the first couple of times we meet. This is\u00a0essentially a stranger\u00a0with whom\u00a0you are sharing\u00a0your\u00a0feelings.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: of \u00a0I would love to know a little bit more about what's going on in your life but I will attempt an answer. This therapy thing your doing is sometimes scary. First, because your opening up things that you might have never wanted to. The therapist really can't be your \"friend\". They are there to push the buttons that you might not want pushed and help you heal. That in itself is scary and can make you anxious. Third, you really never know where this therapy thing will go.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: First, I am so sorry you are experiencing these feelings. They can be intense, I will do my best to offer some suggestions or thoughts that I hope will be helpful to you. Therapy is a delicate, private decision and I would first like to commend you for the fact that you are not giving up, that you are working to figure this out, and make this work, it sounds like you are engaged and motivated to receive support from a professional,\u00a0your continued \u00a0dedication and motivation will take you far. If you are not comfortable discussing this with your therapist, this may be something to take into consideration and worthy of thinking about: why you are not comfortable speaking to the therapist. We often forget to breathe, especially when we\u00a0 are feeling anxious.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How can I avoid having past traumatic experiences affect my present and future? I have family issues, and my dad was both violent and a cheater.\nTherapist: In general, our past is always somewhat alive and does inform our present experiences. That being said, your father's behavior does not have to define you or your future. You have power over your life and your future. The best way to grow and learn how to do this is to talk with someone about your experiences. By talking about your past and present struggles with a trusted confidante or helping professional you will hopefully learn how to be at peace with your past.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-avoid-having-past-traumatic-experiences-affect-my-present-and-future", "topics": "Trauma,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I'm very depressed? I'm  very depressed. How do I find someone to talk to?\nTherapist: If there is no one in your life with whom you feel comfortable, I would recommend identifying someone on this site, psychology today or goodtherapy.org who is in your area, then give that therapist a call to see if you would be a good match.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-very-depressed", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I not miss my boyfriend while he's in Ireland? My boyfriend is in Ireland for 11 days, and I am an emotional wreck.\nTherapist: It sounds like you and your boyfriend are very close. Do you typically spend most of your time together? If so, it may be important to reflect on how you feel when you are apart. If any separation is difficult, you may need to examine why. Think about what it is that you miss and what you are anxious, upset or worried about. If you examine the causes of your distress you likely will experience some relief. It is important to learn how to be happy when you are alone, it will only improve the way you feel when you are with your boyfriend.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-not-miss-my-boyfriend-while-he-s-in-ireland", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Am I overreacting by breaking up with my boyfriend because he called me a particular profanity? My boyfriend called me a particular profanity and I broke up with him. This is the third time he's called me this and I'm just completely done with giving him chances. He knows how much it bothers me. I just want to know if I'm over reacting.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are reacting to an issue in communication patterns, rather than a particular word. The ability to listen considerately to your partner and to have your partner listen to you is one of the keystones of a successful relationship. If your partner is not listening to, acknowledging and remembering your wishes, that is likely an indicator of some fissures in the foundation of the relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/am-i-overreacting-by-breaking-up-with-my-boyfriend-because-he-called-me-a-particular-profanity", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my fianc\u00e9 accept and let go of my past? My fianc\u00e9 and I come from a strong Christian background but both went off the \"straight and narrow\" once before. He is having a hard time accepting my past, especially  that I'm not a virgin. He has a hard time in general accepting himself and others.   His insecurities are hurting our relationship. How can I help him let go of my past and decide to live in the present?\nTherapist: One of the sometimes difficult things about being in a relationship is the fact that you can make goals for yourself, but you can't make goals for your partner. If your fianc\u00e9 wants to learn to live more in the present and learn to let go of the past or move in a different direction, you can certainly assist him, but you can't independently make it happen. Also, if he wants to make a change, it may be helpful to see a therapist who specializes in working with couples.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-fianc-accept-and-let-go-of-my-past", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: Well, it's generally okay to feel anxious or nervous about going into therapy, particularly in the beginning because the process of being open about what you are going through, much less to someone who you don't know well, can be anxiety-producing. It's also common to feel anxious when you are discussing something that is important, difficult to discuss, or you are making changes that are very difficult for you. That opens the dialog to discuss whether it is the level of anxiety that they want to sit with and learn about in discovering more about themselves and their experiences and/or whether they would like to do something to lessen the feeling of anxiety. If it caused anxiety for you to do so, I hope that feeling is diminishing for you, at least related to writing here.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How do I get my husband to listen to me? I'm always listening to my husband, but it feels like he never listens to me.   How do I get my husband to listen to me instead of me listening to him all the time?\nTherapist: There are many different house of things that may be helpful here. I can give you some general ideas, but if some of these things don't get you to where you would like to go, consider seeing a therapist who specializes in couples:Remember that you can only guarantee change in yourself. If you're going to talk about something important or you really want him to listen, first ask whether this is a good time. By that, I mean that you may have a very important message that you're trying to get across. If you able to say it in a way that is clear and wrapped in such a way that he can hear what you're actually saying, that is helpful.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-husband-to-listen-to-me", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: For some people it's absolutely normal to feel nervous about coming to therapy. It's sometimes hard to share our emotions and feelings with someone --- no matter how warm and caring the therapist is. Maybe this is a good thing to discuss with your specific therapist at the beginning of your next session --- maybe they can help you find some strategies or tools to make it easier?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How do I move on? I'm obsessing about a terrible breakup. Everything is a constant reminder.  How do I move on?\nTherapist: Breaking up can be a very difficult thing. Secondly, it's important to do things that make you feel better and not worse. It's important to concentrate on you and not them. Even though your emotions are hurting and you are feeling\u00a0badly, can you see the light at the end of the tunnel? Maybe contact a therapist\u00a0or counsellor that can help you through this difficult time?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-move-on-2", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: I'm very depressed? I'm  very depressed. How do I find someone to talk to?\nTherapist: Is there a 24-hour helpline where you are that you can call? Here is a website with some numbers to call: \u00a0https://psychcentral.com/lib/common-hotline-phone-numbers/ \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0You could talk to your family doctor and they could help you find a therapist? You could also use this website to find a therapist. I sincerely hope you find someone to talk to.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-very-depressed", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I best fight the winter blues? Every winter I find myself getting sad because of the weather.  How can I fight this?\nTherapist: Change your total daily routine, different route, different lunch, different afternoon. Sit outside for 10 minutes three times every day, use a therapy light during the day, aroma-therapy oils for stimulation, but....keep your routine bedtimes and wake up times......and exercise at least 3 times per week,\u00a0 if after several weeks you are not feeling better....talk with your doctor.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-best-fight-the-winter-blues", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I find myself again? I just don't know what I want in life anymore. I'm can't figure out what it is that is keeping me distracted and unfocused. I can't put things into perspective at all. I'm just stuck, and I'm disappointed with my lack of accomplishments.\nTherapist: It can be very disorienting not to know what you want and where you are headed. Sometimes we are so focused on something we haven't achieved yet or on comparing ourselves to others that we lose touch with what we actually want and need. At times like this, it's important to go back to basics. For example: make meals, complete homework...etc. Then in the column next to it, write down the things that you do for yourself to recharge yourself and to enjoy your time. To fix that, write another list of things that you enjoyed doing in the past for yourself and start incorporating them into your schedule on a regular basis.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-find-myself-again", "topics": "Self-esteem,Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my husband to listen to me? I'm always listening to my husband, but it feels like he never listens to me.   How do I get my husband to listen to me instead of me listening to him all the time?\nTherapist: Unfortunately you can't directly change another person's behavior. However, you can give him feedback on how his not listening impacts you. The best way to provide feedback is in 3 parts. The first part is telling him the emotion you are experiencing when he doesn't listen, such as hurt, sad, and unloved. I would stay away from feelings such as frustrated, angry and irritated and use a more vulnerable emotion. Example: when I get home and tell you about my day and you don't look away from the tv.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-husband-to-listen-to-me", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is being mean and fighting with my boyfriend normal after an abortion? nan\nTherapist: Yes, it is completely normal to experience a wide range of emotions after a major loss. Elisabeth K\u00fcbler-Ross proposed the concept of the five stages of grief:Denial - Unable to believe the reality of the loss. and \"why me?\"Bargaining - Hope that you can somehow avoid the cause of grief with a promise to compromise or change. Depression - Feeling sad, discouraged, and/or hopeless. Acceptance - Being able to remember with love rather than pain. This 5-stage model is meant to help normalize the grieving process and educate individuals that you have to let yourself feel your way through your grief.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-being-mean-and-fighting-with-my-boyfriend-normal-after-an-abortion", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What makes my husband so selfish when it comes to my feelings? If I tell him I don't like certain things, he does when it pertains to me. He tells me it's not like that. He never has anything to say about me until I tell him something about himself.\nTherapist: It sounds like there are issues with communication between you and your husband. Your perceptions of interactions that you are having don't sound like they match up. It would probably be helpful for you both to work on communicating using \"I\" statements (I feel----when you---). This is a more effective way of communicating your needs than directly criticizing the other person. If you work on communicating in new, less critical ways you both may learn more about your spouse's feelings and perspective.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-makes-my-husband-so-selfish-when-it-comes-to-my-feelings", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: If you have only been to a couple of sessions, it makes sense that you might still feel apprehensive at first. You may be talking about some things that you never talked to anyone about before. After you feel comfortable with your counselor, and trust has built up and you feel understood in session, you should feel more relaxed. I would encourage you to talk to your counselor about feeling a little shaky. For example, are you and the therapist not a good fit?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel like I'm nothing more than a wife and mom? I'm in my mid 20s with a husband and children. I love my family, but I feel like I've lost my identity, and I don't know who I am other than a mom and wife. At times, all I can think is what I gave up and how I feel unhappy and trapped, but I know I'd feel like worse without them. I loathe myself at times. I have an amazing life, so why can't I just enjoy it?\nTherapist: You went from having a career to focusing on your family. I think it is great that you are self-aware and want to work on this. Feeling \"unhappy and trapped\" may also mean that you are \u00a0believing these negative thoughts are absolutely true. We have lots and lots of thoughts throughout the day. You also said that you have an amazing life. It is a great place for you to start so you can balance out your thoughts and emotions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-like-i-m-nothing-more-than-a-wife-and-mom", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression,Self-esteem"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my fianc\u00e9 accept and let go of my past? My fianc\u00e9 and I come from a strong Christian background but both went off the \"straight and narrow\" once before. He is having a hard time accepting my past, especially  that I'm not a virgin. He has a hard time in general accepting himself and others.   His insecurities are hurting our relationship. How can I help him let go of my past and decide to live in the present?\nTherapist: Sometimes we have difficulty keeping the past in the past. The best way to build a great relationship and have a great future, believe it or not, is to be firmly placed in the present. We are reacting to what we are experiencing in the moment, not reacting to a worry about the past. I think it is great that you want to help him and the choice to stay in the present and move forward in the relationship will mostly be up to him. Communication skills can really be helpful. You can both have the opportunity to hear each other and support each other.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-fianc-accept-and-let-go-of-my-past", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: Yes, it is completely normal to feel anxious about therapy. Therapy often explores topics and feelings that are uncomfortable. The ultimate goal of therapy is to feel better but the process itself can be uncomfortable.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: It is absolutely normal to be nervous about therapy. Many people take years to make the decision to start counseling and although it is a safe place to explore feelings, it may be the first time you are facing certain issues. The fact that you are continuing to go to therapy sessions despite feeling nervous demonstrates your strength.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How do I move on? I'm obsessing about a terrible breakup. Everything is a constant reminder.  How do I move on?\nTherapist: Relationships can be extremely enjoyable and satisfying. When relationships end, however, it can be devastating. It is normal to go through a grieving process after a breakup. Denial, bargaining, sadness, anger and eventually acceptance are all normal stages of grief. Take care of yourself during this time by exercising, eating and sleeping well and spending time with friends. After some time you should start feeling better. If you feel like you're not feeling better and you don't know what to do, you can see a therapist to help you get through this difficult time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-move-on-2", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a couple to overcome cheating if it only happened once? My fianc\u00e9 and I have been together for 3 years and our relationship has always been good. The only issue we had was that he felt like he wasn't getting enough sexual attention from me.   I recently found out he cheated on me with another women.  He says he wants his family back but I'm confused on what to do.  Is it possible for us to get past the cheating, or should I just move on?\nTherapist: Betrayal in a relationship can be one of the most difficult things a relationship can sustain. Sometimes feelings about the betrayal may also trigger past wounds. The fact that \"it only happened once\" may not make it any easier to move forward. I highly recommend working with a mental health professional who has experience working around the issue of infidelity. Together, you can work on healing the wounds and moving forward. I do believe it is possible to move forward, if both partners are ready and willing to do the work to move forward together and create a new vision for their relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-couple-to-overcome-cheating-if-it-only-happened-once", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: Yes, feeling nervous for the first few or several sessions of therapy, is completely normal. Therapy is an unusual way to have a conversation with someone. For some people the fear is that the therapist knows more about you than you do yourself. In general terms hopefully your therapist has worked with many other people who've faced problems similar to yours. Once you start to trust both your own right to tell your particular story and start to also feel that your therapist is listening attentively and cares what you tell the person, your nervousness will start to disappear all on its own. Good luck in getting the most from your therapy sessions!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Does my daughter have a mental disability? My daughter is in later elementary school. She can't color in the lines. Her words jumble together when she writes unless there are big spaces or she skips lines.\nTherapist: If your daughter is the same age as most of the other students in her class, and the other students easily complete the tasks you list here, then there is a problem in the performance of these tasks for your daughter. Without knowing more about the context of your daughter's life, for example, is she a new student to the school and class, are there major stressors in the home environment, does your daughter have friends, does your daughter have the same problems she has in school, when she is in other environments?Also, who is telling you she has these problems?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/does-my-daughter-have-a-mental-disability", "topics": "Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my fianc\u00e9 accept and let go of my past? My fianc\u00e9 and I come from a strong Christian background but both went off the \"straight and narrow\" once before. He is having a hard time accepting my past, especially  that I'm not a virgin. He has a hard time in general accepting himself and others.   His insecurities are hurting our relationship. How can I help him let go of my past and decide to live in the present?\nTherapist: Your patience with his pace of accepting your past, is the factor most in your control in this situation. Everyone accepts a new understanding at their own particular rate. Since it is possible he may accelerate his pace of accepting your past if he knows that this is a priority for you, tell him about your own discomfort .Even if knowing how you feel does not motivate him to a quicker pace of accepting your past, you will have the peace of mind to know you gave him all the information you possibly had to give.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-fianc-accept-and-let-go-of-my-past", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my husband to listen to me? I'm always listening to my husband, but it feels like he never listens to me.   How do I get my husband to listen to me instead of me listening to him all the time?\nTherapist: Does your husband want to listen to you?Find this out by asking him the question!This way you know whether the goal you'd like to reach is even possible. Some partners prefer that one person is the rule maker or the only one who is entitled to talk about themselves. Basically, no one can directly change someone into being more openminded. What is possible is to tell him your wishes, your willingness to be patient while he develops the habit of listening to you and point out that a relationship is more fulfilling when both partners feel they are receiving from the other one.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-husband-to-listen-to-me", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: Therapy does not work overnight, oftentimes it is a lifelong struggle, the therapists job is not to \"cure\" you or to remove something but rather to make you strong enough to live your life with your own peculiarities and struggles, remember we are human and constantly fallible. Another important thing to note is that although you go to therapy, that is just a room, most of the magic and work takes place in your real life outside of that room.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How can I help my fianc\u00e9 accept and let go of my past? My fianc\u00e9 and I come from a strong Christian background but both went off the \"straight and narrow\" once before. He is having a hard time accepting my past, especially  that I'm not a virgin. He has a hard time in general accepting himself and others.   His insecurities are hurting our relationship. How can I help him let go of my past and decide to live in the present?\nTherapist: This suffering and clinging to the past, especially a troubled past or a past that we dont like, may be\u00a0 amplified due to the Christian framework that may be built into your life. you mention the straight and narrow, this is a notion that you must give up on and let go, humans can never travel the straight and narrow for their whole lives there are bounds to be mistakes, we are the most fallible species on the planet and please tell your fiance to have some mercy on himself, he is not perfect. But one creature said at last, \"I am tired of clinging. Yet in time, as the creature refused to cling again, the current lifted him free from the bottom, and he was bruised and hurt no more. all the while clinging to the rocks, and when they looked again he was gone, and they were left alone making legends of a savior.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-fianc-accept-and-let-go-of-my-past", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my husband to listen to me? I'm always listening to my husband, but it feels like he never listens to me.   How do I get my husband to listen to me instead of me listening to him all the time?\nTherapist: It's hard when you feel as if you're the only one that's taking the time to listen to your spouse. But, I would look at this as an opportunity to see if you can become aware of what exactly is happening between you, when you try and talk with your husband. I would suggest paying attention to the way you begin dialogue with your husband. When blame and criticism are included, bids for connection, can quickly go off track. If you find this pattern continues, you might consider seeking professional help through couples therapy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-husband-to-listen-to-me", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I feel completely alone in my marriage. I have been married for 11 years. Within the past 2 years we have drifted far apart. We coexist together but there is very little personal interest in each other. I often feel that my husband has \"friends\" at work that he is more emotional invested in than me. I feel very alone and just uncared for.  Is there anything I can do to feel reconnected?\nTherapist: Feeling alone in your marriage is one of the most painful feelings. Wanting connection with your spouse yet feeling the all too familiar distance that's keeping you apart can be so hurtful. You might be able to move closer toward each other on your own but since there has been two years of distance, I would suggest looking into couples therapy with a trained couples therapist. I'm also curious if there was a significant event that occurred around the time you started feeling distant. If there was something that occurred during this time that is hard for you both to talk about, couples therapy can help with this also.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-completely-alone-in-my-marriage", "topics": "Marriage,Relationships,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I move on? I'm obsessing about a terrible breakup. Everything is a constant reminder.  How do I move on?\nTherapist: We have high hopes and then those hopes and dreams are dashed and we feel at a loss for how to deal with this sudden change in our lives. First, it is important to acknowledge that losing a relationship is a loss and we need to grieve that loss. Instead, take good care of yourself, talk to friends and give your self time to heal. The second most important thing is to forgive yourself; this is also an important part of taking care of yourself. You might be blaming yourself and re-living moments when you wish you would have done things differently. Lastly, in my experience the people who have the most difficulty moving on have not really severed all ties with their ex.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-move-on-2", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Why do I always get ignored by people? Every time I send a message to someone or a group message on Instagram, iMessage, or snapchat people will read my messages but then they won't answer me.   Could it be that there is something they don't like about me? I don't understand why they won't answer my messages. How do I get people to respond to me?\nTherapist: I understand the feeling of not being liked due to not having any responses on the sites you list. More than likely the non-response has less to do with liking you than w liking the way you write your messages. Have you tried asking a question in your posts? This would be one way to invite people to answer your post. When you write, \u00a0imagine yourself as the reader of the post. If you think about the wording of a question which would motivate you to respond, then this formula will very likely be the same for many others who read your post.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-always-get-ignored-by-people", "topics": "Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My dad is mad because I identify as a male and I was born a female. My dad doesn't like the fact that I'm a boy. He yells at me daily because of it and he tells me I'm extreme and over dramatic.  I get so depressed  because of my dad's yelling. He keeps asking me why I can't just be happy the way I am and yells at me on a daily basis. Is this considered emotional abuse?\nTherapist: It certainly is irritating and annoying to be yelled at for being yourself. Maybe at a time when he's not yelling you can bring up the topic of your own willingness, if this is true, to discuss questions he has about your gender. There's no guarantee he won't start yelling midway through a dialogue like this. Only then you will be on firm ground to excuse yourself from the conversation since you already explained that you're willing to talk with him and not to be yelled at by him.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-dad-is-mad-because-i-identify-as-a-male-and-i-was-born-a-female", "topics": "Family Conflict,LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: I'm very depressed? I'm  very depressed. How do I find someone to talk to?\nTherapist: Great that you realize talking with a professional counselor about how you feel, would be helpful!If you'd like a very fast response by phone, then google \"depression hotline\" for where you live. And, if you have a specific topic which upsets you then google around with this topic to see if there are services specific to your interest. If you've got time to invest in looking for the best fit therapist for yourself, then google \"therapy' or \"therapist\". There will be many, many names which come up.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-very-depressed", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: What makes a good marriage? What makes a healthy marriage last?\nTherapist: The answer of what makes a \"good marriage\" are as varied as there are marriages. Basically, similarity, like mindedness in beliefs and values, makes a good marriage. The best chance of getting along with someone on a longterm basis is when two people see life and the world in similar ways. Even though \"opposites attract\" this is a short lived dynamic which breaks apart when there aren't enough similarities in common between the partners.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-makes-a-good-marriage", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: I want to become a better man. I'm having relationship problems and I want to fix them to make things right before I lose her. How can I learn how to listen and get myself together?\nTherapist: I'm glad to read about your willingness to develop new ways to invest yourself with your partner. Still, relationships can change if one person changes since changing one part of a system will change the system itself. See if you can figure out what you wanted and what you partner wanted in that particular moment. Also keep in mind there is a limit to everyone's flexibility. The second step is to know when you've reached the end of possibilities to change yourself and not be accepted for who you are. Good luck in enjoying the changes you will try to make!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-become-a-better-man", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What should I do about my marriage and my wife's behavior? My wife and I got separated because I asked about her contact with a male friend of hers. The next day, she kicked me out.  She let me move back two days later. Yesterday, she said she wanted a divorce then quickly changed her mind. I asked if the other guy was a factor, but she says it's not my business.\nTherapist: When \"threats\" of leaving, such as what you described in your question (\"kicking you out, wanting divorce\") are continuous in your marriage, it can start to erode at the foundation of your relationship, impacting both partners. And, if you're concerned about the influence of another male in the relationship, and are unable to express your concerns or fears to your wife, it's extremely difficult to build a secure functioning relationship. From the information provided in your question, it seems as if there is some avoidance evident in your relationship. Avoidance of being able to express yourself and have honest communication about your relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-should-i-do-about-my-marriage-and-my-wife-s-behavior", "topics": "Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can my marriage be fixed? I've only been married three months. Every week, we argue about something, and it seems to be getting worse.\nTherapist: One key factor to consider is, are you able to repair after your arguments? I'm also curious if you're having the same type of arguments over and over? The key here though is to make sure you have a plan in place - when things are good between you - an agreement between you that when you both start to get escalated, you'll name it or have an agreed upon code word to signal you don't want to continue this cycle, and then agree to cool off and come back together at a later time. That way, when this is enacted during an argument, nobody feels abandoned during the cool off time. Rather, both partners know they will return at a time when they can truly hear each other and hear their needs.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-my-marriage-be-fixed", "topics": "Marriage"}, {"text": "User: How should I handle the child I had with my ex-wife? My ex-wife married and used me to have a child. She now uses that child as a pawn. I know my child misses me, but I need to move on and not live in the past. How do I do this? Do I see my child as much as possible or very little? Is it more confusing for the child?\nTherapist: When parents get divorced, they still need to figure out how to have relationship so that they can parent their child. We might divorce our partners, however, we don't divorce our children. It is important for your children to have some consistency in his or her time with you. This will lay the foundation for consistency and allow your child to have some security in troubled times. How you can both be there to help raise her. Remember, in any discussion keep the focus on what is best for your child and you will be moving in the right direction.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-should-i-handle-the-child-i-had-with-my-ex-wife", "topics": "Parenting,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: It takes a lot of courage to go to therapy. I have gone myself as a Counselor and know what that feeling is like. This is normal but hopefully you have become more comfortable with your therapist. This might be something to bring up to your Therapist and openly discuss (scary to do but its ok) this may even relieve some of your anxiety. If it continues, you may want to consider trying another therapist as this one may not be the best fit for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a person to stop feeling emotions? I was raped a couple months ago, Since then, along with other unfortunately events that have occurred, I have been having trouble feeling emotions. It's almost as if I'm a sociopath lacking any feeling. What can I do to change this?\nTherapist: First and foremost, be gentle and patient with yourself. It is normal to feel a range of emotions after a severe trauma including no emotions at all. Try not to push yourself to feel, just notice the lack of emotion you are experiencing right now. Maybe write about your emotions and the lack of them or talk about it with a safe person. Unfortunately recovering from trauma can take time and it's best done at your own pace. If you aren't feeling there may be a reason you aren't feeling. For severe trauma I always recommend working with a trained trauma professional who has the training to guide you on your path to healing fully.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-person-to-stop-feeling-emotions", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: How do I get my husband to listen to me? I'm always listening to my husband, but it feels like he never listens to me.   How do I get my husband to listen to me instead of me listening to him all the time?\nTherapist: Communication is definitely a 2-way street. In other words, you practice specific techniques that you can use and then teach later on. Here are some skills for you to use consciously and then you can teach:Pay attention and use your body language to convey that you are in the conversation. Ask questions to get to understand the other person's point of view. I believe when we can model these kinds of listening skills, and the other person feels heard, they will be more likely to listen to us.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-my-husband-to-listen-to-me", "topics": "Relationships,Marriage"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is upset about my friendship with another guy. I have a friend that who I used to be in a relationship with. It was brief and turned into us being just good friends.  I spent the weekend with him and  it upset my boyfriend. Was i wrong?\nTherapist: It's completely understandable that you would have male friends and that you would want to spend time with them. Some people are very easy going and wouldn't feel threatened by what you did \u00a0Others would be upset. If your boyfriend is upset by you spending time with this male friend, then you need to talk about it. Each of you needs to express your feelings about the situation and listen to the other with patience and respect. Then you can make a decision on what is best for you and your relationship. Maybe he wouldn't be upset if you saw this friend while you were with your boyfriend.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-upset-about-my-friendship-with-another-guy", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is upset about my friendship with another guy. I have a friend that who I used to be in a relationship with. It was brief and turned into us being just good friends.  I spent the weekend with him and  it upset my boyfriend. Was i wrong?\nTherapist: I think this type of situation can be common for many couples struggling with how to keep friendships with past relationships while being in a new relationship. For me, more information is needed here...but given the information provided, the way I interpret the question is...I'm assuming your boyfriend didn't know you were going to spend the weekend with your good friend? And to talk about your point of view regarding spending the weekend with him. If you feel like you can't have this conversation without it going off track, please consider seeing a couples therapist. They can help you begin these important conversations that can help shape and develop the relationship you and your boyfriend long for.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-upset-about-my-friendship-with-another-guy", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell a girl that I crossdress? I crossdress and like to be feminine but I am attracted to women, but yet that seems to bother girls I date or ask out.   How can I approach them about it? should I hold back and keep it a secret, or should I just be up-front about it.  I wonder if i should stop or if I should continue to do it since it makes me happy.  What should I do?\nTherapist: Keep doing the crossdressing since you like it. Your problem sounds more a matter of timing and reason to tell the girl about it. Usually our relationship partner is someone whom we trust as a safe person to know all about us. Once you feel at ease with your potential partner then bring up your crossdressing. Based on their handling of this intimate part of your life, you will know more as to whether or not you feel more or less drawn to them. Secrets held within a relationship usually get worse with time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-a-girl-that-i-crossdress", "topics": "Human Sexuality,LGBTQ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I stop feeling empty? I don't know how else to explain it. All I can say is that I feel empty, I feel nothing.  How do I stop feeling this way?\nTherapist: Your question is very broad because feeling empty can develop for many different reasons. You're certainly not alone in feeling this way!Try to follow the logic of your feelings by asking yourself questions about the empty feeling. Doing this may open up a discovery about the reason for the emptiness feeling. Sometimes people need a little help to get started in understanding how to recognize their feelings. Consider a therapist, any disciplined practice which encourages self-knowledge, such as some yoga practices, and a creative discipline like photography or music.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stop-feeling-empty", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with parental figures who have hurt me? People who are parental figures in my life have, in the past, hurt me, and some continue to do so. It makes me feel like I'm not good enough for my husband or the life he provides me. I have had jobs, but I am going through a lot of my past garbage and trying to figure out when it all went wrong. Any time I bring these things up, I am expected to be over the issue.\nTherapist: Adults who come from abusive home histories (physical, emotional, or even psychological), may take a long time to heal from that abuse. Some of our deepest scars in life are indeed invisible and suppressed. Can you find it in your heart to forgive those who have hurt you? By forgiving (even in the absence of any apology), we are releasing the weight of the burden we are carrying that reflects the offense we feel was committed against us. Talking with someone who can be non-judgmental and reflects an empathetic position toward you might be what you need right now.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-parental-figures-who-have-hurt-me", "topics": "Depression,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: I\u2019m afraid that I\u2019m gay. I've been going through a rough time lately. I been into nothing but women. I\u2019ve never thought about men until a week ago. I\u2019m very upset and depressed about this. It's not normal to me. I looked at gay porn more than once to prove that I\u2019m not gay. I get the same results each time, and I feel disgust. This is tough on me. I'm scared that I looked too many times. I keep thinking about it and shake all the time.\nTherapist: Coming to terms with the idea that you might be of a sexuality other than the one in which you were socially raised to be, can be emotionally disturbing, and quite unsettling. It is important to know what impact this has on you, because it can determine your level of follow through and desire in pursuing sexual activity with someone of the same sex. Many I speak to, say they had to struggle to come to terms with this awareness about how they see themselves sexually. This will offer you perspective, as you think on how this plays out in your life. I encourage you to consider reaching out for help. There is a huge community of support for you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-afraid-that-i-m-gay", "topics": "LGBTQ"}, {"text": "User: How can I best fight the winter blues? Every winter I find myself getting sad because of the weather.  How can I fight this?\nTherapist: Sometimes its quite literally the lack of sunshine that can affect our mood - in these cases it can be worth experimenting with a sun lamp, to boost your dose of vitamin D, when the sun isn't naturally out. Also consider, what is it that the change in weather, changes in your life? If for example, when its sunny you are an outdoorsy, active person and when the weather changes, you're whole activity level changes along with it, you could explore how to get some of that activity replicated indoors in the winter months.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-best-fight-the-winter-blues", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: Therapy can feel very weird to begin with - think about it, how often do we go and tell a relative stranger our deepest, darkest thoughts in the rest of our life? So I think its reasonable to expect a certain level of nerves as you get used to your therapist and to the whole process of talking about yourself and vulnerable topics. That said, its definitely worth bringing to the attention of your therapist (if you haven't already) to see if there is anything that they can do, or that the two of you can explore together, that might make the process feel less intimidating to you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How can I be less stressed? I need help knowing how to deal with stress. What can I do?\nTherapist: I recommend a Mindful Based Stress Reduction MBSR program.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-stressed-3", "topics": "Stress"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is upset about my friendship with another guy. I have a friend that who I used to be in a relationship with. It was brief and turned into us being just good friends.  I spent the weekend with him and  it upset my boyfriend. Was i wrong?\nTherapist: That is a difficult situation and there is no right or wrong. You both need to discuss it and come up with a solution that works for the both of you. You want to spend time with your friend but your boyfriend \u00a0may feel betrayed by you spending quality time with another man you have been intimate with. There may be a way for you both to get your needs met. Maybe you only spend short periods of time with your friend, not a whole weekend. If it becomes too difficult, you may need a neutral party to help you establish appropriate boundaries around this issue.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-upset-about-my-friendship-with-another-guy", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I'm very depressed? I'm  very depressed. How do I find someone to talk to?\nTherapist: Feeling depressed sucks but talking with someone can really help - so its awesome that you're already trying to figure out how to find that person. Tons of good suggestions already but to add my two cents - you can find therapists in your area and read a little bit about them to find someone you like the sound of via this website, and also via www.psychologytoday.com; if you have health insurance your insurer might be able to make recommendations as to therapists covered by your plan, or if you happen to be in school, the school itself should be able to connect you with either their own counselor or a center that they recommend nearby.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-very-depressed", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Can i learn to be happy alone? I'm dealing with an illness that will never go away and I feel like my life will never change for the better. I feel alone and that i have no one.   How can I overcome this pain and learn to be happy alone?\nTherapist: I'm so sorry you're feeling like things will never get better. Try to remember that whatever illness you are dealing with, you are not the only person to have dealt with it and you are not alone! Out there, just waiting for you, is a group of people that will totally understand what you're going through and will be able to share how they coped. Try searching for a support group for your illness - google and www.psychologytoday.com are both good places to start for those groups.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-learn-to-be-happy-alone", "topics": "Depression,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less stressed? I need help knowing how to deal with stress. What can I do?\nTherapist: Our body reacts to stress typically by breathing more shallowly, increasing our heart rate and tensing our muscles - so one thing that I find really effective is to try to do the opposite of that, which sends the signal to our mind that we are relaxed. So that means, taking slower, fuller breaths and trying to relax any areas where we might be gripping our muscles. I recommend using the app daily, whether you feel stressed or not, and then also using it when you re feeling particular moments of stress - that way you are practicing the skill when you feel calm(wish) and it'll be ready and able to help you when stress hits hard.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-stressed-3", "topics": "Stress"}, {"text": "User: My mother is trying to control my life and I don't know what to do. I am in my early 20s and I still live with my parents because I can't afford to live alone.  My mother says that if I live under her roof I have to follow her rules. She is trying to control my life. What should I do?\nTherapist: You're among many millennials who live with their parents due to financial reasons. Have you tried simply telling your mom that you're willing to be a responsible household member and that you prefer to keep the details of the way you live the rest of your life, to yourself?This would show respect to your mom and start the discussion as to the areas of your life you feel deserve privacy and how you would like to handle when your right to run your own life overlaps with any household duties.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-mother-is-trying-to-control-my-life-and-i-don-t-know-what-to-do", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How should I handle the child I had with my ex-wife? My ex-wife married and used me to have a child. She now uses that child as a pawn. I know my child misses me, but I need to move on and not live in the past. How do I do this? Do I see my child as much as possible or very little? Is it more confusing for the child?\nTherapist: What are the ways your ex-wife uses your child as a pawn?This answer determines the best ways to handle particular situations. Your relationship to your ex wife took place between two adults and therefore you are only responsible for your own actions to repair the damage done to you. In a way the challenge of keeping active as a parent while also distancing and clearing your emotions of the hurt and betrayal done to you, will establish both a solid relationship with your child and grow more acceptance and self-forgiveness of having been taken advantage of and tricked.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-should-i-handle-the-child-i-had-with-my-ex-wife", "topics": "Parenting,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: I'm concerned about my 12 year old daughter. I'm concerned about My 12 year old daughter.   About a month or two ago she started walking on her toes, as well as coloring and writing very messy. This all happened very suddenly. She has never walked on her tiptoes and has always colored and written very neatly.   Is this something I should be concerned abou? Any advice will help.\nTherapist: Have you asked your daughter why she's doing the behaviors you describe?Often the best way to find out why someone does something is to simply ask them their reason. Maybe she doesn't know she's doing this and maybe she feels embarrassed to tell you she's doing something a bit odd. Since usually 12 year olds don't color, is it new that she started coloring?Maybe given the fact of messy handwriting, she's in a phase of pretending or reflecting on good times as a young child. Then this becomes the topic of examination.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-concerned-about-my-12-year-old-daughter", "topics": "Parenting,Children & Adolescents"}, {"text": "User: Why am I experiencing dfficulty maintaining an erection? A few years ago I was making love to my wife when for no known reason I lost my erection,   Now I'm In my early 30s and my problem has become more and more frequent. This is causing major problems for my ego and it's diminishing my self esteem. I am devastated and cannot find a cause for these issues. I am very attracted to my wife and want to express it in the bedroom like I used to. What could be causing this, and what can I do about it?\nTherapist: First step always is to do a medical rule out so that you're sure the problem is psychological and emotion based, not a medical condition which requires care and attention. If you are medically clear in the reasons for losing your erection, then reflect on what may be creating a loss in confidence in either who you are and what you're doing with your life, or whether your wife has these sort of problems within herself. Often a problem transfers ownership of who shows it. Our emotional lives are much more indirect. Basically, do a broad inward search of your life and what it holds and maybe ask your wife to do the same.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-experiencing-dfficulty-maintaining-an-erection", "topics": "Intimacy,Human Sexuality,Depression,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less stressed? I need help dealing with stress. How can I handle it all and feel less stressed out?\nTherapist: In case you feel some relief to know you're feeling the tone of our times. We live with crumbling of our values which then gives rise to insecurity everywhere. You're more normal for noticing and feeling stressed than if you imagine life felt fine the way it is!One road to take is to accept that there are no clear roads forward. And, it helps too to know that nothing lasts forever, eventually all of what is up in the air will start to land in a much more clear way.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-stressed-4", "topics": "Stress"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with my depression? I know I need to deal with my depression. But I don't know how and I don't want to tell anyone.   How can I deal with depression without telling anyone?\nTherapist: It can be really tough to tell someone - anyone - that you're feeling depressed. But finding that supportive person that you can share with is a big part of the battle with depression. Depression thrives on being secret, it seems to grow the more we isolate ourselves and hide it away so I'm with Laura Cassidy, when she suggests finding that professional support person so you can start fighting back against your depression.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-my-depression-2", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with bullying at school? I've been bullied for years and the teachers have done nothing about it. I haven't been diagnosed with depression, but i have been extremely sad for years.  How can I deal with being bullied at school when the teachers won't help?\nTherapist: That's a very difficult situation that you are in. I have several school-aged clients who find little to no assistance from their teachers at their schools regarding bullying. There are a few options that are available to you to help deal with being bullied at school. One option that I would suggest is for you to talk to your support network. Friends and family can sometimes be good sources of support. Another option would be to speak with us about your counselor, if you have one. And third, there are some excellent online sources of support regarding the bullying at school (www.stopbullying.org).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-bullying-at-school", "topics": "Children & Adolescents"}, {"text": "User: Why am I experiencing dfficulty maintaining an erection? A few years ago I was making love to my wife when for no known reason I lost my erection,   Now I'm In my early 30s and my problem has become more and more frequent. This is causing major problems for my ego and it's diminishing my self esteem. I am devastated and cannot find a cause for these issues. I am very attracted to my wife and want to express it in the bedroom like I used to. What could be causing this, and what can I do about it?\nTherapist: When I'm working with men with this type of situation, I always suggest a medical examination to rule out any type of organic reason for a difficulty in maintaining interaction. In cases where there is no medical reason for the loss of erection, I find that many men have a similar situation in experiencing negative intrusive thinking during lovemaking. My counseling approach for this situation is to incorporate the use of mindful sex.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-experiencing-dfficulty-maintaining-an-erection", "topics": "Intimacy,Human Sexuality,Depression,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less stressed? I need help dealing with stress. How can I handle it all and feel less stressed out?\nTherapist: Part of handling stress is making sure that your perception of the stress is accurate. Sometimes stress can seem more than it really is. One thing that I encourage my clients to do is to ask themselves, \"What is this stressor really about?\" Simplifying stress is a key to minimizing stress and leads to feeling less stressed out.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-stressed-4", "topics": "Stress"}, {"text": "User: How do I stop feeling empty? I don't know how else to explain it. All I can say is that I feel empty, I feel nothing.  How do I stop feeling this way?\nTherapist: A feeling of emptiness can be from a lack of awareness and acknowledgment for the things, the people, the places that you have in your life. The use of affirmation and gratitudes helps to remind ourselves of all of the aspects of our lives.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stop-feeling-empty", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is upset about my friendship with another guy. I have a friend that who I used to be in a relationship with. It was brief and turned into us being just good friends.  I spent the weekend with him and  it upset my boyfriend. Was i wrong?\nTherapist: This can be a very complicated situation. The boundaries of relationship include the rules to follow in the relationship. It is important to follow the rules of your relationship \u00a0in regards to each person being able to spend time with exes. If you and your boyfriend agree upon a rule about spending time with exes, then there should be no problem.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-upset-about-my-friendship-with-another-guy", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Why am I experiencing dfficulty maintaining an erection? A few years ago I was making love to my wife when for no known reason I lost my erection,   Now I'm In my early 30s and my problem has become more and more frequent. This is causing major problems for my ego and it's diminishing my self esteem. I am devastated and cannot find a cause for these issues. I am very attracted to my wife and want to express it in the bedroom like I used to. What could be causing this, and what can I do about it?\nTherapist: For starters, know that this is a normal experience for many men at some point in their lives. I am going to move forward assuming that you have already checked with a medical professional to rule out any medical problems that may be related to this. Assuming that is the case, for most this happens for two primary reasons. This can be caused my diet, lack of exercise, even stress. Another primary reason for loss of erections are anxiety. Have their been recent relationship issues? My suggestion to you would be to seek out a counselor that specializes in sexuality that can assist you in moving forward with this.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-am-i-experiencing-dfficulty-maintaining-an-erection", "topics": "Intimacy,Human Sexuality,Depression,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a couple to overcome cheating if it only happened once? My fianc\u00e9 and I have been together for 3 years and our relationship has always been good. The only issue we had was that he felt like he wasn't getting enough sexual attention from me.   I recently found out he cheated on me with another women.  He says he wants his family back but I'm confused on what to do.  Is it possible for us to get past the cheating, or should I just move on?\nTherapist: As a relationship therapist I work with couples all the time that are in the repair phase of their relationship after infidelity. The short answer to this, is not only is it possible to have a satisfying and fullfilling relationship after infidelity, it happens more often that we may know. The current rate of infidelity is high, while it's not important to go into many reasons, it mau be important to know you aren't alone in this! My biggest suggestion for you would be to seek out a professional counselor that specializes in working with couples healing from infidelity.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-couple-to-overcome-cheating-if-it-only-happened-once", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: Yes, counseling can be beneficial to many people. One of the effective components to effective therapy, is when the client becomes willing to participate in the counseling. I don't mean just show up and listen to the counselor for 45-50 minutes, but also that the client themselves opens up and shares with the counselor the issues that brought them to counseling in the first place. You'll thank yourself later, knowing that you are more connected to yourself and might even feel more whole after the process.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: Some people shy away from counseling because they think since they already talk about how they feel to their relatives or friends they shouldn't need a counselor. However, if you are having a difficult time, counseling can be beneficial in helping you move forward and get your life back on track. In that way, counselors come to a session without judgement and expectation. A counselor can also help you understand your motivation and help you integrate your past experiences and recommend coping skills that can help you if you are feeling overwhelmed by your emotions. A counselor will help you uncover the solutions that work best for you and help you find the motivation to follow through with your plan.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How do I get over \"imposter syndrome\"? I'm dealing with imposter syndrome in graduate school.  I know that by all accounts I am a phenomenal graduate student, and that I am well-published.  I am well liked by students and faculty alike.  And yet I cannot shake the feeling that I'm going to be found out as a fraud.   How can I get over this feeling?\nTherapist: It would be very helpful to identify with you eventual pattern where the\u00a0imposter syndrome is more or less present. Are there specific situations where you've noticed the feelings of \"I'm going to be found out as a fraud\" becoming more strong? It seems that shaking this feeling is very important to you. In my opinion, before shaking that feeling, we need to get closer to it and understand its roots. What is the thought process I engage with after noticing this feeling?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-imposter-syndrome", "topics": "Stress,Workplace Relationships,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is upset about my friendship with another guy. I have a friend that who I used to be in a relationship with. It was brief and turned into us being just good friends.  I spent the weekend with him and  it upset my boyfriend. Was i wrong?\nTherapist: It is not the case of being right or wrong, in my view. If you are asking, I believe you truly\u00a0care for your boyfriend. It seems like he is having difficulties in establishing trust in this relationship. The ideal would be to come closer to his upsetness and to show him that you are there for him.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-upset-about-my-friendship-with-another-guy", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is upset about my friendship with another guy. I have a friend that who I used to be in a relationship with. It was brief and turned into us being just good friends.  I spent the weekend with him and  it upset my boyfriend. Was i wrong?\nTherapist: Ideally you and your boyfriend will reach a balance point where you and your boyfriend are each happy with the level of involvement you have with your former boyfriend. Start w a discussion with your current boyfriend as to what specifically he doesn't like about your friendship with your former boyfriend. It is possible that you can answer his concerns as well he can find out from you more as to what the friendship is all about. The obvious possibility is to socialize together with your current boyfriend and your former one. If neither guy would go for this, then this would show there is an undercurrent of competition for your romantic attention.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-upset-about-my-friendship-with-another-guy", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over \"imposter syndrome\"? I'm dealing with imposter syndrome in graduate school.  I know that by all accounts I am a phenomenal graduate student, and that I am well-published.  I am well liked by students and faculty alike.  And yet I cannot shake the feeling that I'm going to be found out as a fraud.   How can I get over this feeling?\nTherapist: First step is to remove the label of your behavior as a syndrome and instead understand the reasons for it. \"Imposter syndrome\" sounds like a name someone made up to write a book and have lots of people buy it bc it gives the feeling they know themselves by calling themselves this name. Instead, consider your own unique qualities including your fears of being recognized as adding value to people's lives. If you were told growing up that you're worthless, or if your chosen career goes against family advice and expectations, or if you simply are a shy person, then these would be the starting points to understand your reluctance to believe in yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-imposter-syndrome", "topics": "Stress,Workplace Relationships,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: From the very beginning of counseling sessions I emphasize that the work will and must end at some point. In counseling there is an arc to the process. I am always digging, searching and exploring. There comes a point where things come to there natural ending. I always leave an opening for continuing counseling in the future.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: There are different reasons why a counselor may seek to terminate with a client and these will each have different processes by which the counselor will come to that decision. A person may have come to the counselor talking about a particular issue but either when they first met or as counseling progressed, it may become clear that the issue is in fact something different or that there is an additional related issue. No counselor is the right person to work with everyone. If the right level of connection is not happening, the counselor will often look first at what they are doing, might talk about it with the client and ultimately will admit that things don't seem to be working to allow the desired therapeutic process to work.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: This is a question that is very specific to each person. There are definitely some variables, but I can give you some general ideas for when counseling might end:When a client has met all of their goals, at least to a degree when they feel that they no longer need to work on them with the assistance of a counselorSometimes a decision is made that a client is no longer benefiting from counseling at a certain timeSometimes clients have to remain in counseling in order to receive medication. This depends on agency policy, but sometimes it is a requirement. I strongly encourage you to ask about it!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: Usually people call me by phone, they introduce themselves, we chat for a bit, then we schedule a time for their appointment", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: Hi there,\u00a0There are a number of reasons why a therapeutic relationship might end including, but not limited to the client reaching their goals, the client reaching a place of acceptance where they wish to remain or even a breach within the relationship. The last aspect should likely be taken to supervision in order to be fully processed. This is a bit more difficult and can be very nerve-wracking. In these check-ins, I use the time to ask the client how they feel about the sessions and if there is anything they wish to focus on more astutely. Often, especially in longer term therapeutic relationships, we as clinicians can see that the client has reached their goal, however they are apprehensive about ending therapy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: Hello,\u00a0There are many ways to approach a counselor and starting the process, however they all start with picking up the phone. It's most definitely an uncomfortable feeling, but once that first step is taken it is often met with a wave of relief. You may also discover, rather quickly, that this therapist is not the right match for you. Regardless of how you go about it, I like to remind all people who call, email, text or walk-in, therapists are a bit like pizzas - if you don't like the toppings, send it back!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: There are typically three reasons why therapy is terminated:1) Client has met therapy goals2) Client is not progressing\u00a03) Therapist is not a good fit for clientIn order to properly assess whether therapy is helping and what progress is being made, the therapist needs to have ways of consistently checking in with clients sessions-by-session to determine what is helping, what isn't, and where the client is at in relation to their original therapy goals. When a client has met their goals, that is a good time to end counselling sessions unless the client has new goals or simply wants to check-in periodically to make sure that they are still on track (sometimes referred to as relapse prevention).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: My family says I have depression. I'm in my late teens and live with my dad.  The only time I go out is for my college classes. Sometimes when I see my friends I want to talk with them, but sometimes I won't want to talk to them for days or even weeks.   Sometimes I feel i'm not worth knowing or i'm never going to do anything right.  Are they right, am I depressed?\nTherapist: I'm alway wary of assigning a term to a feeling, as often that term becomes more important than the feeling itself. From the very little that you have written, it is clear that you are going through something that has made you extremely low, affected your self-esteem and motivation, limits your enjoyment of formerly pleasurable activities and affects your feelings of self-worth. All of these are aspects of being depressed, though you can be depressed and still not have \"depression\". Counseling is definitely a place where you can go and sort out why you have had such a sudden a drastic change to your mood.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-family-says-i-have-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: The end of the counselor/client relationship is one of mutual respect and engagement. Counseling sessions can end for any number of reasons. Or, if already formed, may at some point be unable to move forward. In these instances, referring the client to another type of service or clinician is appropriate. Ultimately, the client and counselor need to work together to discover if the needs of the client (which is paramount) are being met in the therapeutic engagement with their current counselor, or if other arrangements need to be made to go elsewhere.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: Counseling often begins way before the client ever actually calls the local therapist. Counselors are well trained to acknowledge the inherent goodness of all clients, and should be able to see and hear the sense of fear in the client of being judged or put down in some way. The counselor will typically provide you with what we generally call in the profession a professional disclosure or practice statement. In the first session, it is absolutely okay to be nervous. While simultaneously hiding all the troubling unwanted issues that we ourselves have in our life too, and being worried that we might not know if we can help the client sitting in front of us.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I'm in a relationship, and I think I like my ex-boyfriend. My friend Jennifer used to date him a while ago, and she's fine with us dating. Peter and I are going through a rough patch in our relationship. All of a sudden, Paul is in \"love\" with me, and he wants me back. I don't know what to do because I can't hurt my friend or my boyfriend, but I think I might Paul again.\nTherapist: The dynamics of having a romantic relationship with someone is not always clear. How long and/or how committed is the current relationship you are in now with your current partner? Does your former partner not like being \"dumped\" and maybe they just want to get back together with you so that they can \"dump\" you instead? You likely want to make a good decision, and you also might want to consider who it will impact, and how that will happen. You will want to carefully consider the value of that friendship before you take any actions that could damage it. In your heart, you will likely find the right answer.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-in-a-relationship-and-i-think-i-like-my-ex-boyfriend-who-do-i-choose", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I cope with work related stress better? I am in a high stress position for a tech company. I am being overworked and underpaid for my contributions and it is not only giving me anxiety, but also demoralizing.  What can I do to manage my stress?\nTherapist: Workplace stress is one of those areas of living that troubles many people who need an income to survive. The interactions between you and coworkers is a mixed bag, and sorting that out can be difficult. A few questions can be kept in mind as you work through your situation. Do you have connections with employment counselors or agencies that can support you with strategies in dealing with workplace stress? While still at your job, what can you do to take care of yourself? Knowing your personal limits and when to pull back and take a break will give you a chance to recharge your mental and physical energy, thus helping you face the demands of your job.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-cope-with-work-related-stress-better", "topics": "Stress,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: My suggestion would be to google therapists in your area. One great website is called Psychology Today, which is a National site. You can search for therapists in your zip code and search more specifically for the issue you are seeking support about. I would then make a list of the ones that may be a good fit and then give them a call! Remember you get to ask anything you need to, to determine if someone is a good fit.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How do I tell a girl that I crossdress? I crossdress and like to be feminine but I am attracted to women, but yet that seems to bother girls I date or ask out.   How can I approach them about it? should I hold back and keep it a secret, or should I just be up-front about it.  I wonder if i should stop or if I should continue to do it since it makes me happy.  What should I do?\nTherapist: I think the most important part of what you mentioned was that you do it because it makes you happy. For that reason, I would encourage you to keep doing what makes you happy. I'd also ask you to consider this: Are the people who you say this to expecting it? Are you comfortable answering questions?I wonder if you could figure out yourself or with friends (or perhaps even with a therapist) how you would answer these sorts of questions:What exactly is cross-dressing?Does that change the gender that you're attracted to?What does it mean to you?Why is it important to you?And what you want your listening person to know about you related to cross-dressing.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-a-girl-that-i-crossdress", "topics": "Human Sexuality,LGBTQ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: Hopefully both the client and counselor would together decide when to terminate counseling sessions. It's really helpful for the client to leave counseling with a solid sense of what he or she has accomplished in counseling, so it can be a good idea to spend some time acknowledging that in the last session or sessions. Sometimes, however, a client has needs beyond the scope of the counselor's expertise. That's a good time for a conversation about those needs and ideas of \u00a0how best to meet them, whether by adding in care with an additional mental health professional or transferring care entirely to a new mental health provider.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: My daughter isn't acting her age. My daughter seemed to be developing at a normal rate until about the age of 10. She then started to act younger than she is.   Now she only wants to play with younger kids and she doesn't act her age. I don't know why this is happening. Is this normal?\nTherapist: Good for you to know your daughter's friendship circles and to notice when these have changed. While friendships are key relationships, they are not the only indicator of someone not developing normally. Once you've reflected on which areas may be affecting your daughter, gently ask her some questions about her comfort with what you theorize may be the source of the problem. Its also possible that offering her your extra time and interest may increase her sense of self so that she feels secure enough to increase her social time with her age group.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-daughter-isn-t-acting-her-age", "topics": "Parenting,Children & Adolescents"}, {"text": "User: What happens in a counseling session? After first meeting the client, what is the process that a counselor facilitates?\nTherapist: Great question which I imagine many other people have as well. In what areas are the problem interactions which you hope will disappear?The therapist is trained to listen for your emotions to your story. And to open these up to you in a kind and safe way so that you'll start to see your circumstance in a new light in which you feel more of your own authority to handle the troubling conditions. The therapist and you will refine your thinking and theories. I hope you'll enjoy learning and creating new thinking and interacting patterns!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-happens-in-a-counseling-session", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How can I cope with work related stress better? I am in a high stress position for a tech company. I am being overworked and underpaid for my contributions and it is not only giving me anxiety, but also demoralizing.  What can I do to manage my stress?\nTherapist: Recognize your reason for continuing to work for this place. Sometimes \"overworked and underpaid\" is tolerable bc of the valuable learning which the person will take with them when they've decided the time has come for these lessons to end. Or, are you in this place bc it is an easy commute to your home or fits well with other parts of your life such as education or some health related program?As long as you have a good reason to be there, you will feel there is good purpose.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-cope-with-work-related-stress-better", "topics": "Stress,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I want to feel more comfortable around people. My son was diagnosed with autism a few years ago and I stopped working so that I could take care of him.  I also was dealing with an abusive relationship (mentally, physically, and emotionally). Now I live like a recluse and I always feel nervous around people.  How can I feel more comfortable around other people?\nTherapist: Probably a good portion of living like a recluse was necessary so you had time to rest and recuperate from so much major adjustment in your life. Have you told some of the people in your life about the many changes you've been through? Also, understand what type of qualities you'd like to offer and receive in a friendship. Start with one person whom you're pretty sure would welcome you and whom you would gain by bringing them into your life. As a result of how this interaction goes, how you decide to spend your time together, what you'll discuss, you will know more about yourself and what you require to feel good around other people.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-feel-more-comfortable-around-people", "topics": "Parenting,Relationships,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: What are the skills needed by a counselor? What are the basic skills a good counselor needs to have?\nTherapist: To be non-judgemental, know who they themselves are, be able to step forward and ask questions with ease and grace into painful emotional areas. Also to respect human difference in accomplishing basic life tasks and everyday living.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-are-the-skills-needed-by-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: In my therapy practice the decision to end therapy is mutually made together with the patient. Otherwise, the person can end up with a sense of tremendous rejection and abandonment. The way you'll both know therapy is coming to a close is that the discussion will feel lighter and move easily. The person's mood will be better, they will smile more, sit in their seat in a more relaxed way, look more at ease, take better care of their appearance. Sometimes people who are in my practice start to come each three weeks, then monthly, then every three months.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: Phone or email a counselor whose profile you've read and which feels right for you. Ask to get a feel as to the way the person would handle your problem and work with you. In my practice I offer a phone consult which generally continues for twenty minutes. I feel it is only fair that a prospective patient has a feel for the service they are about to purchase before they can be expected to pay money for a service which may not be to their liking at all.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I don't like going outside anymore. I don't understand why this is happening. Why do I feel this way?\nTherapist: The first step to answer your question is to reflect on what is going on in your life overall. I assume you mean you are by yourself when you are indoors. One way to encourage yourself to go back outdoors is to connect w a friend or search for an interest within you to develop. This way with either of these, you'd feel a little bit of motivation to join and get more involved with either of these.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-like-going-outside-anymore", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My family says I have depression. I'm in my late teens and live with my dad.  The only time I go out is for my college classes. Sometimes when I see my friends I want to talk with them, but sometimes I won't want to talk to them for days or even weeks.   Sometimes I feel i'm not worth knowing or i'm never going to do anything right.  Are they right, am I depressed?\nTherapist: The answer to the question of whether or not you're depressed, is less meaningful than what you are doing to feel strong and secure in your life. What to do about this feeling is to get closer to yourself in an accepting way. Assume that what you do in daily living is somehow necessary. Make believe you're interesting and find out more about who you are, if you have trouble to start with thinking of yourself as worth understanding. The more you appreciate who you are and your unique strengths, vulnerabilities and fears, the more these will dissolve by what seems on their own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-family-says-i-have-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: My family says I have depression. I'm in my late teens and live with my dad.  The only time I go out is for my college classes. Sometimes when I see my friends I want to talk with them, but sometimes I won't want to talk to them for days or even weeks.   Sometimes I feel i'm not worth knowing or i'm never going to do anything right.  Are they right, am I depressed?\nTherapist: Being a teenager in our society today can cause depression quite easily. If you are feeling depression because you feel you lack some of those things that are seen as important by others (like your peers), I can assure you that being someone who is kind; compassionate; understanding of another person's suffering; and the effort you make to be the best person you can become in the world, will far outweigh anything you experienced in your teen years. In your post, you mentioned that you live with your dad. Either of these circumstances could certainly cause depression. If you want are in Washington state and would like to connect with me directly, you call link to me via my profile page. Don't be afraid of not always knowing how you are supposed to feel.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-family-says-i-have-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do you know if someone is an alcoholic? nan\nTherapist: Wikipedia\u00a0states, Alcoholism In a medical context, alcoholism is said to exist when two or more of the following conditions is present: a person drinks large amounts over a long time period, has difficulty cutting down, acquiring and drinking alcohol takes up a great deal of time, alcohol is strongly desired, usage results in not fulfilling responsibilities, usage results in social problems, usage results in health problems, usage results in risky situations,\u00a0withdrawal\u00a0occurs when stopping, and\u00a0alcohol tolerance\u00a0has occurred with use.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-you-know-if-someone-is-an-alcoholic", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: Is there a lawsuit for counselors and therapists who failed to report a relapse? I have a relative who is in his twenties.  He was in a drug rehabilitation program and got kicked out for using drugs again. No one informed family that he was using drugs again.  He subsequently overdosed and was found dead. Is their accountability of counselors, therapists or the halfway house for not reporting that he had relapsed? Is there a legal case for failing to report?\nTherapist: Generally therapists only have a duty to report self harm to ones self or others if it is expressed to them. Often times they will not report relapses due to the fact that proper releases were not signed or patient has specifically asked them not to for fear of shaming or failure again. I understand this may not be the answer you were hoping for. I would encourage the family to seek therapy themselves for help coping with such a loss.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-there-a-lawsuit-for-counselors-and-therapists-who-failed-to-report-a-relapse", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Legal & Regulatory,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: My husband was lying about drinking again. A while back (3 years ago), I asked him to stop drinking so much, and he agreed. He admitted and apologized and promised he wouldn't do it again. Lately, my husband has been drinking on and off, but I noticed it was every single night. The other night, I counted the beers in the fridge just to see if some were missing. I asked if he had been drinking, but he snapped and said no.\nTherapist: It can be very frustrating being lied to. Addiction is not something that comes and goes. Once you have addict tendencies they are here to stay. You may be able to fight them off for awhile but the will enviably rear their ugly head again. Some of the things that we would suggest is taking the access away. If chocolate cake was your favorite food and you were a diabetic, you would not have chocolate cake lying around all the time because you know you would eventually eat it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-husband-was-lying-about-drinking-again", "topics": "Addiction,Marriage,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I stop abusing alcohol? I have bipolar II disorder, I'm addicted to alcohol and weed, and I'm hopeless. I keep drinking even though it's harming myself and others.\nTherapist: You are not hopeless, as you can see there are many people who care about your well being and believe you can overcome this. I would suggest that you first get evaluated for your alcohol consumption. Alcohol is one of the addictions that you may need to seek inpatient treatment for. If not inpatient then be monitored by a doctor. Once you are evaluated and or complete inpatient treatment I would suggest you participate in a form of outpatient therapy on a consistent basis.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-stop-abusing-alcohol", "topics": "Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: How do I see a therapist without having healthcare? I need to speak to someone about sexual addiction and binge eating immediately.\nTherapist: There are plenty of online providers within the mental health field that would me more than happy to speak with you immediately. Many of them provide treatment on a sliding scale fee. I would google online mental health treatment providers and that should lead you to a list of providers that can help you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-see-a-therapist-without-having-healthcare", "topics": "Eating Disorders,Human Sexuality,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: What can I do to help my dad stop drinking? Or how to send him somewhere that can help him, something like The Baker Act.\nTherapist: Your dad needs to be aware that he has a problem and be willing to make some changes in order for him to be motivated to stop. Often times individuals will be forced to stop when they were not ready. Remember we can not ever make someone do something they do not want to do. There needs to be at least a little willingness on the other party to make some changes. I would encourage you to reach out to your family or other loved ones and have a conversation with your dad regarding your concerns.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-to-help-my-dad-stop-drinking", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: I'm addicted to smoking. How can I stop? I'm planning to have baby, so I have to quit smoking - but it's hard. Sometimes it's not a physical need, it's mental.  I cannot help myself from thinking about smoking. What can I do to get rid of this addiction?\nTherapist: It can be challenging to quite anything once we set our mind to it. We often crave the things more that we know we can not or should not have. Then make yourself aware of the mental part the habit part. Often times people will engage in smoking again just from the mere social aspect of it. There are plenty of support groups out there to help with this as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-addicted-to-smoking-how-can-i-stop", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: I want to feel more comfortable around people. My son was diagnosed with autism a few years ago and I stopped working so that I could take care of him.  I also was dealing with an abusive relationship (mentally, physically, and emotionally). Now I live like a recluse and I always feel nervous around people.  How can I feel more comfortable around other people?\nTherapist: I would look at \u00a0getting engaged with a support network of individuals who may also have autistic children. They will understand some of the things that you are experiencing at home and you may also find someone who feels that same way as you. If you have not sought professional counseling for the abusive relationship I would seek out a therapist who can help you process through it so you do not repeat similar choices in your next relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-feel-more-comfortable-around-people", "topics": "Parenting,Relationships,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: What happens in a counseling session? After first meeting the client, what is the process that a counselor facilitates?\nTherapist: A good therapist will discuss what brought you to therapy in the first place and devise a therapy plan with you on some of the things that you may want to work on. The plan is not set in stone as things may arise during your therapy sessions. You also agree on how often and when you would like to meet.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-happens-in-a-counseling-session", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: In the best case scenario, it's a mutual discussion and decision. If not, \u00a0I've had the discussion initiated both ways, by me, when I sense the client has gone has far as they want, by lack of interest in accepting or completing homework assignments, missing or cancelling appointments, usually at the last minute, lack of participation during sessions. Client initiates by asking me pointed questions about why the need for homework assignments,, by forgetting their calendar, or their checkbook :) , by suggesting that we make appointments over longer intervals (once a week to once a month, for example).", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: Experts have defined counseling as a healing relationship that helps patients by providing a space to vent, process and receive unconditional support. Beyond the ability to provide a safe place, counselors are trained to identify symptoms and behavioral patterns, and can provide insight on how develop coping mechanisms to improve their life. Algunos de mis clientes han expresado que son capaces de encontrar las respuestas a sus problemas durante la sesi\u00f3n de consejer\u00eda, porque tiene a la persona indicada escuch\u00e1ndolos.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How long do I wait on my ex-fianc\u00e9 to choose me over his ex-girlfriend? My ex-fianc\u00e9 (whom I am still seeing) left me because of the pressure from all three of his teenage daughters. He and I split three months ago, but I have been seeing him pretty regularly despite the fact that he is living back with his ex-girlfriend and kids. He is \"co-existing\" for the kids and fighting all the time with his ex-girlfriend. He and I had an absolutely amazing relationship and connect on so many levels.\nTherapist: It seems you are in a set of circumstances that are highly uncomfortable for you. Why do you continue to be in this situation? Do you consider this situation to be for your highest good? In truth, only you can decide the answers to these very important questions. In my clinical view based on what I read, this particular relationship does not carry the joy I am sure you want, nor the healthy interactions you would expect in a functional romantic engagement with another person. There is a time to wait to see how things develop, and a time to move on to other experiences.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-long-do-i-wait-on-my-ex-fianc-to-choose-me-over-his-ex-girlfriend", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationships,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a person to stop feeling emotions? I was raped a couple months ago, Since then, along with other unfortunately events that have occurred, I have been having trouble feeling emotions. It's almost as if I'm a sociopath lacking any feeling. What can I do to change this?\nTherapist: You are describing a very legitimate reaction to trauma. This is very common and the goal is to help you manage the stress caused by dealing with negative events and with help you can regain emotional well-being. This is especially important if you have had more than one negative thing happen. We often blame ourselves when bad things happen. It is actually difficult to comprehend the concept that we don't always have control of what happens in life. The next step is to start dealing with the impact of these traumatic experiences.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-person-to-stop-feeling-emotions", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: My mother is trying to control my life and I don't know what to do. I am in my early 20s and I still live with my parents because I can't afford to live alone.  My mother says that if I live under her roof I have to follow her rules. She is trying to control my life. What should I do?\nTherapist: That is a really tough situation that a lot of young people are experiencing right now. Controlling parents are often driven by their concept of what will keep their children safe and happy. There aren\u2019t any quick tips on how to deal with parents who want to control you; you need to find strategies that are geared to your specific family situation. Get specific coping tips from books about family dynamics, such as:Toxic Parents: Overcoming Their Hurtful Legacy and Reclaiming Your Life by Susan ForwardCutting Loose: An Adult's Guide to Coming to Terms with Your Parents by Howard HalpernA counselor can be a good resource and provide support and guidance about issues addressing normal growth and development during periods of transition.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-mother-is-trying-to-control-my-life-and-i-don-t-know-what-to-do", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I'm addicted to smoking. How can I stop? I'm planning to have baby, so I have to quit smoking - but it's hard. Sometimes it's not a physical need, it's mental.  I cannot help myself from thinking about smoking. What can I do to get rid of this addiction?\nTherapist: It's also true that there is part that is sometimes a physical need and a part that is often connected to emotions in some way. There are sometimes toys, like those available at Office Playground, that may help to keep you physically occupied. Maybe when you have the temptation to get up and go to have a cigarette, you could have several other things that you can get up and do instead. Depending on what it is that you may be feeling, \u00a0learning other strategies to use can be helpful as well.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-addicted-to-smoking-how-can-i-stop", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: Chances are most of the goodbyes you have experienced in your life have been difficult. Of course, when I talk to clients I don\u2019t use the word \u201ctermination,\u201d I usually say \u201cour goodbye.\u201d What are some situations where a therapist might end the relationship?If the situation the client is dealing with is out of the therapist's scope of practice, the therapist may end the relationship and refer the client to someone else. Another reason a therapist might end the relationship is that the therapist is in a place in her life which prevents her from being objective and helpful. This is good practice and helps the client.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I'm addicted to smoking. How can I stop? I'm planning to have baby, so I have to quit smoking - but it's hard. Sometimes it's not a physical need, it's mental.  I cannot help myself from thinking about smoking. What can I do to get rid of this addiction?\nTherapist: It is very good news that you realize the risks of smoking cigarettes while pregnant and are willing to stop. Thinking about smoking is a typical and frequent reaction to being without the substance. Be creative with what you know about yourself to distract you when this psychological urge comes up. My suggestions are to imagine smoking if you find this would relieve the sense of wanting to smoke. Or, do the opposite and remind yourself of all the good reasons to not smoke. Another suggestion is that your partner is your texting buddy to stop smoking.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-addicted-to-smoking-how-can-i-stop", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: How do I stop sneaking away from home at night? I'm a teenager and I've been sneaking out of my house at night for a year now. I've been caught several times.  I want to stop doing this but I don't know where to start. How do I stop?\nTherapist: Where do you go and what is your reason to go wherever this is?Try to understand these reasons because the answers may give you good guidance as to other ways to get what \u00a0 it is your trying to reach by sneaking from your home at night. If for example, you're sneaking out because your parents are arguing and you feel hurt by this and want to escape hearing their arguments, then you can come up with other ways to hear less of their arguments. Do you feel your parent would offer and would you ask your parent to give their suggestions so you feel more motivated to stay home?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-stop-sneaking-away-from-home-at-night", "topics": "Children & Adolescents,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: Why can't I stop these thoughts? I keep having these random thoughts that I don't want.  Things like \"you aren't worth anything.\"  I know they're my own thoughts but it feels like someone else is saying it.  What is wrong with me, and how can I stop having these thoughts?\nTherapist: Those \u00a0critical thoughts most likely came into your mind as the way you understood what one of your parents or some other adult who was very meaningful to you, at a very young age. Start the habit to revise any viewpoints about yourself which don't feel true. Then replace these thoughts with better ones which you decide on your own. After a while of doing this you'll either automatically think the more positive thoughts about yourself or at least be in the habit to know that negative viewpoints about you are not necessarily true.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-stop-these-thoughts", "topics": "Diagnosis"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: Counseling ends when the client has received the maximum benefit from the therapist. Even if the therapist believes the client is not making progress, the client may feel they are improving and receiving a benefit. And the therapist may see a benefit and the client does not. It is best to have ongoing dialogue with the client to determine when termination is appropriate.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: There are several reasons for a counselor to decide to end counseling. This may happen during the intake process or after working with the client for some time. Another reason to terminate working with a client is if the client needs a higher level of care. If the client has a crisis or is at risk of hurting himself or someone else, he or she may need a higher level of care. A third reason to terminate with a client is if the clinician feels that he or she cannot remain professional with the client relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Are some clients more difficult than others? What are some difficulties that a counselor can encounter when dealing with a client?\nTherapist: Each counselor will have their own list of \"difficulties\" in doing therapy work with a client. Even if clinically trained similarly, since counselors are human then their response to your question will reflect their unique differences as humans. Sometimes I feel like avoiding the pain I feel by asking questions which will steer the conversation away from the painful areas the client talks about. What in fact is necessary to clear out their pain, is to step further into so as to realize their emotional pain isn't greater than who they are.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/are-some-clients-more-difficult-than-others", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling help people? Does counseling really do anything that can help people?\nTherapist: How this happens is bc the counselor can guide the person or couple into deeper areas of their thoughts and emotions than the person or partners would typically avoid or not even realize they are avoiding. Also, a counseling session offers emotional safety because the therapist will intervene with thoughtful questions if someone's strong emotions overwhelm them. This is different than in everyday circumstances. Last, people get better in therapy because often therapy is the first time the person has a chance to trust someone with their confidential information and know this information will always be protected.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-help-people", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I'm addicted to smoking. How can I stop? I'm planning to have baby, so I have to quit smoking - but it's hard. Sometimes it's not a physical need, it's mental.  I cannot help myself from thinking about smoking. What can I do to get rid of this addiction?\nTherapist: Hopefully you feel you have the time to follow this procedure.1. For a week - log when you smoke - time, place and activity2. Cut out the easiest times.3.Next change the times and and activities for 3 days - consider water or candy or gum if it is very tough. Cut another 10% each week until you are done.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-addicted-to-smoking-how-can-i-stop", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: I will work with clients and continually review progress with them and determine if counseling is helping. If a client appears to have less to talk about in sessions, appears more stable for a period of time and has reached therapeutic goals I will talk about termination. Some clients however I may continue with on a monthly or bi monthly process to allow for check-ins to see how they are doing and if they need more help at that time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: My mother is trying to control my life and I don't know what to do. I am in my early 20s and I still live with my parents because I can't afford to live alone.  My mother says that if I live under her roof I have to follow her rules. She is trying to control my life. What should I do?\nTherapist: It sounds like you and your parents are not balanced in your communication and awareness\u00a0of\u00a0expectations. Your growth is not only reflected in your ability to understand and apply new knowledge and skills, it is also reflective of your parents acceptance of your understanding and application. Sometimes it is even helpful to write down ways you feel you can be supported by them\u00a0and supportive to them. Maybe share this list or reflective piece with\u00a0them to review, or use when communicating the expectations.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-mother-is-trying-to-control-my-life-and-i-don-t-know-what-to-do", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: What happens in a counseling session? After first meeting the client, what is the process that a counselor facilitates?\nTherapist: After meeting a client, many Counselors will ask you lots of questions in order to complete a thorough assessment of what you came to counseling for. If you are paying out of pocket, this diagnosis is not really required for payment, but many Counselors will still perform a comprehensive assessment because we really want to know what the issues are that brought you to us. How the counseling actually plays out from there depends a lot on the theory that the Counselor uses to direct their approach to counseling, and that information is too much for this little post.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-happens-in-a-counseling-session", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to cry during therapy? I start counseling/therapy in a few days (I'm freaking out) but my main fear is that I'll cry and embarrass myself, is it something to worry about?\nTherapist: Many people cry during their therapy sessions. Actually most people cry in their therapist's office. I tell my clients that it's safe to cry in my office and crying isn't a sign of weakness. People actually do more harm to themselves by trying not to cry than by crying. Crying is very cleansing and an important part of the healing process for many people.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-cry-during-therapy", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: In general, I usually let the client decide when this should occur, sometimes with some clients it will be a joint agreement, but even in that case it should weigh mostly on what the client feels. In short, therapy ends when you feel your done.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How do I deal with bullying at school? I've been bullied for years and the teachers have done nothing about it. I haven't been diagnosed with depression, but i have been extremely sad for years.  How can I deal with being bullied at school when the teachers won't help?\nTherapist: I'm glad you know the bullies are doing the wrong thing and whatever they are telling you is pure meanness. Depending on how independent you feel, why not tell either your classroom teacher or schedule an appointment with the vice principal?Bullying other students is taken very seriously in some states and schools are expected to address the bullying until the victimized student feels safe. You're entitled to be protected by your school.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-deal-with-bullying-at-school", "topics": "Children & Adolescents"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less stressed? I need help knowing how to deal with stress. What can I do?\nTherapist: Something different works for each of us. There are the outward answers of self-pampering and making your home and work environment as pleasant as possible. A deeper level way to decrease stress is through exercise or alternative practices like yoga or tai chi. Self-understanding and appreciating your efforts to know yourself may decrease stress because you'll be more focused and attentive to who you are. This will influence you overall to make good decisions for yourself and these will naturally be ones which decrease stress as much as possible.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-stressed-3", "topics": "Stress"}, {"text": "User: How can I help myself and change my behavior? I've hit my head on walls and floors ever since I was young.  I sometimes still do it but I don't exactly know why,   I have anxiety and I had a rough childhood but now I'll start to hit my head and sometimes not realize it but I don't know how to stop or even why I'm doing it.   How can I help myself to change my behavior?\nTherapist: I have to wonder from a behavioral perspective if what you are doing is useful for you. Yes, this could well be an expression of anxiety, or maybe some type of coping skill you have developed over the years to deal with stressful situations. So the things we do to cope with life events need to not be ones that cause us harm, but rather support us as we move forward and work to deal with what life throws at us. Sometimes seeking support from a friend or a counselor is a good idea.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-myself-and-change-my-behavior", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I best fight the winter blues? Every winter I find myself getting sad because of the weather.  How can I fight this?\nTherapist: One theory is that instead of \"fighting\" your feelings, accept your sad feelings and work with them. Feeling sad may open many doors to reflect and make peace with the source of your sadness. Winter for most creatures is a time of withdrawal and slowdown. Our bodies and moods are part of nature as well. Fighting what is part of nature seems like a tiring fight which the person will lose. Last point, there are the winter holidays to break up the dark and cold of winter.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-best-fight-the-winter-blues", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: I've never been able to talk with my parents. My parents are in their sixties while I am a teenager. I love both of them but not their personalities. I feel that they do not take me seriously whenever I talk about a serious event in my life. If my dad doesn\u2019t believe me, then my mom goes along with my dad and acts like she doesn\u2019t believe me either. I know they have their own problems, which I do my best to help with. But they don't always try to help me with mine, when I really need them. I feel as if my childhood has been taken from me.\nTherapist: Life sounds extremely frustrating for you right now. Many people don't know how to listen and aren't trustworthy. As painful and aggravating as having parents who fit this description, you're better off to honor what you realize than to continue fighting what is not in your hands to change. Since you write about having a similar problem with friends, then maybe this comes about because you pick friends who are similarly unsatisfying to be with as are your parents.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-get-people-to-listen", "topics": "Anxiety,Family Conflict,Depression,Stress,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Can I sign my brother into a mental health facility? My brother has been diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia and has not been taking his medication. He's been using methamphetamine and alcohol and was found sleeping naked in my step mom driveway in 12 degree weather.  I was adopted in by his dad (who just passed) and his mother will not Get involved because she's afraid of financial responsibility.   Do I have the rights to be able to sign my brother into mentalhealth facility?\nTherapist: The answer depends on what State you live. Since the description you write here is that your brother may be a serious risk to himself and others, it is worth contacting a mental health hotline or one of your local area hospitals and talk to a social worker or other professional level person in their psychiatry department. Your question is a good one and merits serious follow through.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-sign-my-brother-into-a-mental-health-facility", "topics": "Family Conflict,Legal & Regulatory,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: Is this depression? I feel like I am internally screaming all the time. Externally, I am calm, but I have this intense, unidentifiable emotion constantly. I don't feel sad. I don't cry a lot. I feel rather emotionally distant other than the internal screaming. It kind of feels like I'm a caged animal.\nTherapist: It sounds like you are trying to find a label to help you to understand why you are feeling the way you are feeling. Sometimes there are no labels for how we feel. Regardless, you do not have to continue to feel this way, no matter what you call it. However, being able to get at the root cause of what you are feeling may be what you need to help you release this feeling for the long term. I recommend seeking support for this to allow this internal screaming to get some air and begin to breathe.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-this-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: The first thing to do is to reflect on what you want to seek counseling. Search online and then set up a phone consultation. A person can find out a lot about a counselor and the services that they offer over the phone. After a consultation then set up an intake questions. The overall goal is to make sure that you are comfortable with the counselor and the services they can offer.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Why can't I stop these thoughts? I keep having these random thoughts that I don't want.  Things like \"you aren't worth anything.\"  I know they're my own thoughts but it feels like someone else is saying it.  What is wrong with me, and how can I stop having these thoughts?\nTherapist: First off, there is nothing wrong with you. In fact, having random thoughts we feel we cannot control is actually quite common and normal. (If I think I am not worth anything, I don't have to try, and I will keep proving to myself that I am not worth anything). There are many techniques to work through and start to change our negative self-talk. It took a while for you to get where you are and it will take a while for this change to kick in and feel normal.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-stop-these-thoughts", "topics": "Diagnosis"}, {"text": "User: I over endulge when I drink alcohol and feel extremely guilty about it the next day. I'm a female in my mid 20s.  Lately I tend to over drink and I've become a very angry drunk.   In the past, I have even cheated on my boyfriend while I was under the influence of alcohol.   But now, even if I don't do anything wrong and don't embarrass myself, I still feel really guilty after a night of drinking. I don't understand why I'm feeling this way. Does this mean I have a problem?\nTherapist: Speaking with a licensed therapist will help you figure out if indeed you have a problem or not. I would say the first question you should ask yourself is why you are drinking? The second would be why you feel the need to drink in excess? It may be due to a life event or the crowd you are running with. Either way a therapist will be able to help you through this as you already made the first step in admitting you are having a difficult time.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-over-endulge-when-i-drink-alcohol-and-feel-extremely-guilty-about-it-the-next-day", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I fix my relationship? My boyfriend is in recovery from drug addiction. We recently got into a fight and he has become very distant.  I don't know what to do to fix the relationship.\nTherapist: I would first suggest you sitting down with him and voicing your concerns about how distant he has been, or more importantly you have felt that he is. This will give clarification to the situation as we need to remember that everyone's perception can be different. Remember that relationships take work and take communication.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-fix-my-relationship-3", "topics": "Relationships,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: I think it is important that you are able to convey what you are looking for in a therapist even if that changes over time. You need to look at it like you are interviewing the counselor and that they will be able to provide you with the therapy you need. Remembering you are basically hiring someone to help you so I would treat it as such. Do some research and be clear as to why you are coming to therapy and ask questions as how they will be able to help you.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I don't know how to cope with it anymore. He has taken from me my mom and my grandparents. Now he moved his girlfriend into the house because they both manipulated us. I ended up hitting my brother for getting so close to my mom's face. Mind you, he tells other girls that he hates his girlfriend, he's single, and she's only living here because he feels bad. We tried kicking them out and everything, but nothing is working.\nTherapist: I think the best thing for you is to speak with someone on how you can best cope with the situation. It can be challenging living in a household with someone who is currently addicted. It is also important that you realize that you can only work on yourself. Other individuals need to take the same accountability. Enabling often happens in households with addiction. It can be a challenging environment to live in.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-brother-is-an-addict-he-has-does-nothing-but-ruin-my-family-i-don-t-know-how-to-cope-with-it-anymore", "topics": "Family Conflict,Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: My mother is trying to control my life and I don't know what to do. I am in my early 20s and I still live with my parents because I can't afford to live alone.  My mother says that if I live under her roof I have to follow her rules. She is trying to control my life. What should I do?\nTherapist: Unfortunately I think most of us have heard this, so you are not alone. If you are still under her roof she has leverage as to what her expectations are while you are living there. I would consider therapy for the both of you to see if there could be a middle ground that could be agreed upon. Often times a 3rd party can help with conflict. If there is no resolution then I would look to get creative in finding a place of your own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-mother-is-trying-to-control-my-life-and-i-don-t-know-what-to-do", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my children blaming me for their addictions? I have three children: a biological daughter, a stepdaughter, and a stepson. I found out my stepdaughter overdosed today. My daughter blames me. I told her to stay out of it. I'm scared of all three kids now. They all blame me for their choices they made. All three have drug addictions. I had a stroke in 2013 so I need to depend on people from now on.\nTherapist: Blaming others is one of our greatest coping mechanisms. It is not just for addiction, and often we blame the ones closest to us. You can not stop them from blaming you, you can stop yourself for taking on the burden. We are all in charge of the choices we make. No one makes us do something other than our self. We choose how we internalize and react to situations. I would find a good therapist who understands family dynamics and addiction to help you cope with your current environment and help you move forward.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-children-blaming-me-for-their-addictions", "topics": "Parenting,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: How do I help my husband get over his drinking addiction? nan\nTherapist: Acknowledgment from your husband and wiling to make changes is essential first. We often try to force people to make changes hoping that they will see that we are right, even when they may not be ready. Having a willingness to work together and be supportive is fundamental in recovery. If he is not quite there yet I would snuggest individual therapy for yourself where you have an outlet and can also gain suggestions on what the next steps might be. If he is ready I would suggest you engage in therapy together and be ready to listen to him and what his needs might be.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-help-my-husband-get-over-his-drinking-addiction", "topics": "Addiction"}, {"text": "User: I found drugs in my moms drawer\u2014what should I do? She's my stepmom. I'm pretty sure she's illegally buying the drugs and hiding them from my dad.\nTherapist: I would suggest having a conversation with your dad and then having a conversation as a family with your stepmom. Usually there are other signs of use that can often be missed. Be aware of behavior changes and mood swings. Be supportive and ready to listen often times individuals suffering from addiction will deny use until they are ready for help.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-found-drugs-in-my-moms-drawer-what-should-i-do", "topics": "Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: What is the best way to cope with the loss of someone to suicide? I recently lost a friend to suicide.  I'm smoking marijuana and drinking more to cope with it. How can I handle this better?\nTherapist: Most people go through the grieving process. I would get a better understanding of what that process is. Everyone has their own way of handling loss. You are taking the first step in realizing that you are having a difficult time coping with it. I would reach out to a therapist that has experience treatment patients with loss. I would also recognize that drinking and smoking are both substances that will not make depression or depressive thoughts any better.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-is-the-best-way-to-cope-with-the-loss-of-someone-to-suicide", "topics": "Grief and Loss,Substance Abuse,Trauma"}, {"text": "User: Is it okay if I take my friend's pills away? My friend is abusing her prescription medicine. Even though she told me she didn't have any more pills, I found she has prescriptions for anxiety medications.\nTherapist: Your friend needs to admit they have a problem. If not no matter how many pills you take they will find a way to get more. It is also a federal offense to take someone else's medication so if you did take it she could have you arrested. Like anything we put into our system our tolerance builds up and can effect us in different ways. I would listen to her and discuss why she feels that she needs to be on the medications rather than playing bad cop in this situation. Encourage her to get help and let her know you re there for her.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-okay-if-i-take-my-friend-s-pills-away", "topics": "Social Relationships,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: I don't know if my ex-boyfriend is using opiates again. My boyfriend and I recently broke up. One week, we were fine, and the next, he told me he needed space. He completely deleted me out of his life. He does have an opiate addiction. He claimed he was sober, but since we've split, I've heard many lies from him. Could he be using again, and does this addiction affect the mind?\nTherapist: Studies have proven that addiction affects the brain, there are many coping skills that addicts use to enable their addiction as well. I would recommend that you speak with someone abut your relationship and your concerns. Not only so you can have more clarity in the situation but we often tend to gravitate around or toward the same types of individuals. Being more aware of your relationship will help you in the future when re-engaging in personal relationships.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-know-if-my-ex-boyfriend-is-using-opiates-again", "topics": "Relationships,Addiction,Substance Abuse"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is upset about my friendship with another guy. I have a friend that who I used to be in a relationship with. It was brief and turned into us being just good friends.  I spent the weekend with him and  it upset my boyfriend. Was i wrong?\nTherapist: The most important thing to ask yourself here is, \"how did this action affect my relationship, and is it worth the consequences?\" From here, we can objectively decide if spending time with your previous partner (because that is likely what your boyfriend sees them as) is worth harming the relationship you currently have. Many times, it just gives the wrong impressions. It is very possible that your partner may believe that since you spend so much time with them, that they are still a contender for the most intimate relationship you have to offer, and truth be told, they kind of are. The best intimate relationships, are friendships first and foremost.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-upset-about-my-friendship-with-another-guy", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: My family says I have depression. I'm in my late teens and live with my dad.  The only time I go out is for my college classes. Sometimes when I see my friends I want to talk with them, but sometimes I won't want to talk to them for days or even weeks.   Sometimes I feel i'm not worth knowing or i'm never going to do anything right.  Are they right, am I depressed?\nTherapist: Although some people managing depression feel sad or \"down\", \u00a0it\u00a0is a possible to have depression without an obvious sad mood. Many people indicate that they feel numb or flat. They may stay in bed for long periods of time and only get up for absolutely necessary activities. People with depression may also feel inappropriate guilt or shame. The symptoms you are experiencing are typical of depression, and with a bit of support, you could regain energy and improved self-esteem. The stigma surrounding mental health can make a diagnosis or a label\u00a0of depression seem scary.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-family-says-i-have-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: Approaching a counselor can seem intimidating at first, but most mental health professionals want to help you feel safe and heard. You can often find counselors using search engines like CounselChat or Psychology Today. These days, counselors have websites where you can learn even more. These websites usually have clear instructions for contact. During a consultation call, you can ask the therapist questions about their credentials and areas of expertise. If you feel like you connect, you can schedule a first session where you will tell them more about yourself and why you are seeking therapy.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I'm worried about my new job. I just took a job that requires me to travel far away from home. My family and I really need this job.  People keep telling me I have \"anxiety\" and I'm terrified of having an anxiety attack on the road. This is all new to me. What can I do?\nTherapist: First of all, congratulations on your new role! This would be difficult for many people, and it seems that you have an added layer of challenge. You can also do non-visual grounding\u00a0exercises like\u00a0naming all of the hte\u00a0sports teams you can think of or all of the state capitals. Close your eyes and take long breaths in through your nose and out through your mouth. Bilateral stimulation and visualization: Start in a seated position with your hands placed on your knees. I could go on and on, but these techniques should get you started.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-about-my-new-job", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: I'm in high school, and I want to be a psychologist. I just wanted to get to know one so I can hear about their college experience and the courses they took. I also wanted to know if they enjoy their job and how long they were in school.\nTherapist: Mental Health is an exciting and rewarding field. I hear you saying that you want to be a psychologist, and that is one path to working in mental health. You could study psychology,\u00a0social work or counseling to become a practicing therapist. I am a Licensed Professional Counselor Associate and a Licensed Clinical\u00a0Addiction Specialist. Licensing restrictions and abilities\u00a0vary state to state and a local practitioner may be able to provide you with a specific list of challenges/triumphs about their particular license and education. Psychologists are usually PhD level practitioners and require more education to begin.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-in-high-school-and-i-want-to-be-a-psychologist", "topics": "Career Counseling,Professional Ethics"}, {"text": "User: How do I make myself happy without someone who made me happy? How do I make myself happy without the people who made me happy? Now that they\u2019re gone, I feel sad. It\u2019s been two months now but I seem to be unable to stay okay and independent.\nTherapist: So, someone made you happy but is no longer around? As a counselor I usually have to ponder this kind of thought because it lends itself to suggesting that happiness comes from the external, rather than the internal side of a person's life. We are entirely capable of finding ways to be happy. Sometimes this entails working out issues that are holding us back from reaching a place of peace, or resolution to a specific problem. What I would offer to you, is to find ways in which you can develop happiness for yourself. Mourning the loss of a social connection (in whatever way that occurred), is part of the grieving process, but it is not permanent.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-make-myself-happy-without-someone-who-made-me-happy", "topics": "Depression,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: We don't agree on anything and she usually jumps to conclusions, which are usually wrong on how I feel. She is very family-oriented while all of my family left me on my butt, abused, ignored and messed up with me mentally. I only have two people in my life - my best friend and my wife. We've gotten in contact but he just makes comments on how much I look like her when in fact I look more like him. This makes me mad because I don't want to look like my mother.\nTherapist: It sounds to me like you are carrying an enormous amount of emotional weight, and maybe even an equally enormous amount of guilt and feelings of failure about your marriage. There are no easy answers to your questions, and I won't presume that my response to you will be the linch-pin that heals all your pain. Joining a marriage support group can also be helpful. Having said that, we can still take the best from our past and apply to our future, no matter how small or insignificant it might be for us. Both with ourselves, and toward other people. It may be that you discover that the marriage you are in is not a good fit.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-save-my-marriage", "topics": "Domestic Violence,Anger Management,Self-esteem,Marriage,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How can I cope with work related stress better? I am in a high stress position for a tech company. I am being overworked and underpaid for my contributions and it is not only giving me anxiety, but also demoralizing.  What can I do to manage my stress?\nTherapist: It sounds like you are experiencing burnout and have very little, if no job satisfaction. There are some aspects of this that are in your control and others that are not. What type of work do you typically enjoy? Is your boss reasonable to have a conversation with? If you are unable to leave your job, you may want to attempt to balance your work life with more activities that create joy outside of work.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-cope-with-work-related-stress-better", "topics": "Stress,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: The easiest way to start the counseling process is to do a little research online. A quick search for the type of counseling you are looking for can be helpful. If you plan on using insurance to pay for at least part of the services, look for one that is in your network. Once you've found a Counselor you think is a good fit for you, normally the best step to take here is to call and schedule your very first appointment. Once you're all scheduled, they will either get you to do some paperwork before you come in, or many times they just let you fill it out once you get there.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to go into therapy feeling nervous? I've gone to a couple therapy sessions so far and still everytime I walk in I get nervous and shaky.  Is this normal? Should I still be feeling like this?\nTherapist: It can be uncomfortable talking to someone about your life in the great detail that is normally necessary for counseling to be beneficial. Since you're already going to counseling, congratulations on taking that big, first, stress-inducing step. Hopefully by now you are starting to feel a little more comfortable with your therapist. It can be helpful to address this big \"elephant in the room\" and talk to your therapist about this. The good news is, the more you keep at it, the more \"normal\" it will become.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-go-into-therapy-feeling-nervous", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: My family says I have depression. I'm in my late teens and live with my dad.  The only time I go out is for my college classes. Sometimes when I see my friends I want to talk with them, but sometimes I won't want to talk to them for days or even weeks.   Sometimes I feel i'm not worth knowing or i'm never going to do anything right.  Are they right, am I depressed?\nTherapist: I would not focus on what other people say. Do you feel what you have described impacts your day to day functioning? Try to evaluate how is your self esteem, motivation and self confidence. How about negative thoughts or hopelessness? Any concerns about your grades sliding down? If you answered yes to any questions, may be its time to see a counsellor.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-family-says-i-have-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why can't I stop these thoughts? I keep having these random thoughts that I don't want.  Things like \"you aren't worth anything.\"  I know they're my own thoughts but it feels like someone else is saying it.  What is wrong with me, and how can I stop having these thoughts?\nTherapist: Life is beautiful without unwanted thoughts and stress. With proper strategies and tools it is possible to regain control over your thoughts. I guess you are just having \"thoughts\" and not actually \"hearing voices\"? My suggestion is to see a therapist and go from there.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-stop-these-thoughts", "topics": "Diagnosis"}, {"text": "User: How can I make the voices stop? I don't remember when the voices in my head started, but I remember Hearing them when I was little.   I know it's not normal to hear voices that aren't your own. I fight the voices and I want them to stop.  They've been here so long and I want them gone. How can I make the voices stop?\nTherapist: It is not normal to hear voices that aren't your own but the fact is some people do. In my experience, medication seem to help. It is also important to understand when you hear voices the most - meaning it is important to understand what the triggers are. It is also important to understand when the voices are the least - meaning what helps you deal with the voices better. My clients have reported that their triggers are being in social gathering or around strangers or for some even the TV. Every individual is different and you need to figure out what works for you and what triggers your voices.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-the-voices-stop", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I help myself and change my behavior? I've hit my head on walls and floors ever since I was young.  I sometimes still do it but I don't exactly know why,   I have anxiety and I had a rough childhood but now I'll start to hit my head and sometimes not realize it but I don't know how to stop or even why I'm doing it.   How can I help myself to change my behavior?\nTherapist: Give yourself a lot of empathy and care for having had a rough childhood and realizing that life can be better than how you were treated when growing up. Be patient with yourself too bc lasting change takes time. Alternatives to hitting your head require constant gentle reminders to do these new behaviors, or if you've discovered a satisfying alternative in one moment, time is required for you to repeat this alternative until it feels natural. Anxiety usually means someone did not feel well understood growing up and was rushed to comply with the wishes of others who were a regular part of their lives. Anxiety lessens as the person starts to know and accept their wishes and needs as valid. Good luck and enjoy this self discovery project!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-myself-and-change-my-behavior", "topics": "Behavioral Change,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over a person I fell in love with? I know that I need to get past my feelings for this person I fell in love with, but t's so difficult to move on because he showed me feelings I've never felt before.   I feel like I don't  want to be without my genuine love for him, but logically, I know I need to be without him. I can't discuss this with anybody in my life because the conditions surrounding our love are considered  \"wrong\" by a lot of people.  How can I get myself to just move on?\nTherapist: Love is a deep and nuanced feeling so start to accept that a simple cutting of emotional connection isn't possible. The newly discovered sense of how love feels will be with you and positively influence all your relationships. There is a benefit to feeling loved even if it is not forever in this lifetime. Also, your partner opened your feelings, the feelings which showed in fact already were within you. I hope you will find ways to appreciate having been loved and to be open that your feelings of being loved are a positive influence in all your relationships.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-a-person-i-fell-in-love-with", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How does counseling end? How does a counselor decide when to end counseling sessions or to terminate working with a client?\nTherapist: For a therapist, deciding to end counseling sessions or terminate working with a client is a thoughtful and intentional decision. While there are many considerations counselors take into account, to help answer this question, I'll offer an example of two areas that counselor's take into consideration when ending counseling sessions:Does the client need different or more specialized care than the current counselor can provide? This requires the counselor to determine whether referring the client to another therapist or health care provider is needed. And, has the therapeutic relationship reached treatment goal(s)?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-counseling-end", "topics": "Professional Ethics,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: Starting the counseling process can be daunting but here are some ways that hopefully help make the process a little less overwhelming. First,I'd start with finding a therapist through a therapist directory and searching for a therapist specifically in your area and with the expertise you're looking for. There are many reputable therapist directories online that offer specific information and links to therapist websites to learn more about how they can help. Have a list of questions that are important to you that you can ask to determine whether a particular therapist is a good fit. Many therapists offer a free phone consultation to allow you both to determine whether it is a good fit.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: I want to feel more comfortable around people. My son was diagnosed with autism a few years ago and I stopped working so that I could take care of him.  I also was dealing with an abusive relationship (mentally, physically, and emotionally). Now I live like a recluse and I always feel nervous around people.  How can I feel more comfortable around other people?\nTherapist: It sounds like you have taken on a caretaker role for a while as well as experienced some pretty severe interpersonal trauma. Working through the trauma of an abusive relationship in itself can be a difficult process. And then to add on the caretaker part can make things even more difficult. First off, you may want to seek support to work through what you have experienced. Accessing autism support networks may be of support as well. Very importantly, go slow and be kind to yourself as you begin to adapt to a new life of allowing others to care for you as you so clearly have for others.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-feel-more-comfortable-around-people", "topics": "Parenting,Relationships,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: How can I make the voices stop? I don't remember when the voices in my head started, but I remember Hearing them when I was little.   I know it's not normal to hear voices that aren't your own. I fight the voices and I want them to stop.  They've been here so long and I want them gone. How can I make the voices stop?\nTherapist: How is your life going overall?Since you hear voices since you were young I wonder whether you mean the thoughts each of us has about what to do, our opinions, including self-criticism and praise. I try to understand how severe a problem these voices are if you've managed to get to a point in life of awareness about the voices. Usually when mental health people hear about voices the immediate thought is you need drugs bc you are psychotic. Since this is going on for a number of years, I wonder if the problem is something different.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-make-the-voices-stop", "topics": "Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is upset about my friendship with another guy. I have a friend that who I used to be in a relationship with. It was brief and turned into us being just good friends.  I spent the weekend with him and  it upset my boyfriend. Was i wrong?\nTherapist: There are a number of factors playing into this situation. Now those are the ones you have openly expressed. There are very likely other issues that prompted this behavior on your part. Is this the relationship you want, or do you want to be with the former boyfriend?Important questions, but ones you need to ask and answer. Odds are, there is something that triggered this event to occur and it becomes a focal point in discovering any unexplored discomfort or other issues with your current boyfriend.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-upset-about-my-friendship-with-another-guy", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I don't know how to communicate with my adult daughter. There is  just no communication at all between us.  She sleeps constantly all day (not at night).  She acts angry and unfocused and stays in her very messy room all the time. The only time she comes out is to eat.   She has aches and fatigue, weight gain, hair loss and skin problems. She does not look after her health.  I don't know how to communicate with her.  She is not open to any suggestions. How do I get through to her?\nTherapist: I'm sorry for what sounds like a frustrating situation. For how long has your daughter lived the way you describe and did it start all of a sudden or more gradually come on?What you write sounds like a major depressive disorder and this can start for a variety of reasons and improve in just as many different ways. Start with how you are feeling about the situation. Ask yourself for how long you will be able to tolerate the way your daughter lives and if you feel any satisfaction in your mother daughter relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-know-how-to-communicate-with-my-adult-daughter", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationships,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: Is it wrong for me to be attracted to my girlfriend? I'm 15 and my girlfriend is 14. Am I a pedophile because I'm attracted to her and she's under 18?\nTherapist: You wrote that each of you is under the age of 18. A 15 year old cannot be a pedophile because you're not an adult. Also, if you mean \"girlfriend\" in a romantic way then this makes sense bc romantic relationships include physical attraction to the other person.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-wrong-for-me-to-be-attracted-to-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: I always suggest that you find the right fit. You have every right to interview the therapist and ask as many questions as you need. It is our job as a therapist to explain our approach and philosophy. This gives you a good overview of the therapist. Just call and say that you would like to talk to the therapist. Say your interested in the services but unclear about how the process works. From there a seasoned therapist should be proficient in helping to guide you through the process with ease and comfort.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: My mother is trying to control my life and I don't know what to do. I am in my early 20s and I still live with my parents because I can't afford to live alone.  My mother says that if I live under her roof I have to follow her rules. She is trying to control my life. What should I do?\nTherapist: Unfortunately you seem to have yourself in a double bind. By living with your mom she is not going to stop her attempts at what you perceive as \"controlling\". There is no use in trying to debate or get her to \"see your point\". As long as your there and you personalize her attempts at control, then you will find yourself frustrated and resentful. Try to find an extra job or a roommate so that you can do the natural process of moving on out.www.lifecounselingorlando.com", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-mother-is-trying-to-control-my-life-and-i-don-t-know-what-to-do", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I just feel so alone. I feel so alone. I have so many people around me, but it seems as they just listen and dont understand.  They say it will all be okay, or they don't listen to me st all.  Everyone says they are here for me but it doesn't feel like they are. Why do I feel so alone?\nTherapist: We feel alone because we are not comfortable with being our self. When you find that nobody is around do you feel alone? Once you take the journey to really understand who you are and unconditionally loving all that is you, there will never be an alone moment. All you need and have ever needed you supply yourself.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-just-feel-so-alone", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How can I be less dependent on my boyfriend? My boyfriend and I have been dating for almost 2 years. I've been really sad lately and for the past few months I've realized I'm just way too dependent on him.   It makes me really upset to be so dependent on someone else, but I can't help it. I don't even know who I am without him.  How can I be less dependent on my him?\nTherapist: From what you write you've got good motivation to change and awareness as to what you'd like to change. These are very good predictors that you'll be successful in what you'd like to change. Try, the next time you realize you're depending on your bf instead of friends, yourself, to interrupt whatever typical action you'd take. Do something different instead!If when you'd like advice and usually ask your bf, ask a different trusted someone. Only if it seems excessive, such as you're isolating yourself from other close friendships, is dependency on a partner, a problem.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-be-less-dependent-on-my-boyfriend", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it possible for a couple to overcome cheating if it only happened once? My fianc\u00e9 and I have been together for 3 years and our relationship has always been good. The only issue we had was that he felt like he wasn't getting enough sexual attention from me.   I recently found out he cheated on me with another women.  He says he wants his family back but I'm confused on what to do.  Is it possible for us to get past the cheating, or should I just move on?\nTherapist: Definitely yes, it is possible for a couple to trust each other again and become close with each other. Since your trust was broken, your fianc\u00e9 would need to earn back your belief that he is faithful to you. Before you and he address regaining your trust, first decide if you'd like to work on this. Ask yourself if the sexual attention he felt he wasn't getting from you was bc you're not as interested in him as you imagine or once felt in the past.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-possible-for-a-couple-to-overcome-cheating-if-it-only-happened-once", "topics": "Intimacy,Relationships,Human Sexuality"}, {"text": "User: Can i learn to be happy alone? I'm dealing with an illness that will never go away and I feel like my life will never change for the better. I feel alone and that i have no one.   How can I overcome this pain and learn to be happy alone?\nTherapist: Is it possible that even though your illness is chronic, that it goes through phases in which you are more comfortable and that it requires less focus from you than at other times?I think the idea of having a lifelong illness is frustrating and can be depressing to think about. Thoughts are not necessarily the truth of what will actually happen though. Illness makes negative situations look worse so be sure you are concentrating on specific areas of your life and not just assuming they will work out badly because you are ill. This frame of mind may generate new answers to find ways of being among other people too.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/can-i-learn-to-be-happy-alone", "topics": "Depression,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What happens in a counseling session? After first meeting the client, what is the process that a counselor facilitates?\nTherapist: Each counselor may have a different process, so I'm not the end all authority here. Some people are very at ease and tell me many details. Others are a bit more reserved and I have to demonstrate more curiosity. Usually, when we get close to end of session time, I'll summarize what I think are the biggest concerns from what I've heard and confirm whether or not the person wants to work on those things. For instance, a relaxation method if they are very anxious.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-happens-in-a-counseling-session", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Overcoming fears. I have a fear of something and I want to face that fear to overcome it, but I don't know how. What can I do?\nTherapist: Your fear may have deeper roots within your sense of who you are, than you realize. Fears are sometimes irrational so that logic doesn't get rid of them. Also, did any major bad events happen to you with other people or situations when you were growing up?Often these overwhelming situations of childhood stay with us as fears of situations in our adult lives. If the root of the problem w the fear is from long ago, then probably a therapist who can ask you questions which help you remember upsetting childhood circumstances, may help you to dissolve the current fear. CBT is short term and results are limited to specific fears.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/overcoming-fears", "topics": "Anxiety,Behavioral Change"}, {"text": "User: My boyfriend is upset about my friendship with another guy. I have a friend that who I used to be in a relationship with. It was brief and turned into us being just good friends.  I spent the weekend with him and  it upset my boyfriend. Was i wrong?\nTherapist: While you can't be responsible for your boyfriend's feelings, relationships do come with expectations. Both people in a relationship bring their own expectations into it. These expectations are usually unspoken, but result in conflict as you are experiencing here! Your boyfriend expects you not to spend the weekend with this guy. He may expect you to spend every single weekend with him! You'll have to decide if his expectations are ones you can live with. That doesn't mean you did anything wrong.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-boyfriend-is-upset-about-my-friendship-with-another-guy", "topics": "Relationships,Social Relationships"}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to cry during therapy? I start counseling/therapy in a few days (I'm freaking out) but my main fear is that I'll cry and embarrass myself, is it something to worry about?\nTherapist: Lots of people do cry in session, but your therapist won't be uneasy with this. Crying is a natural response and it also releases toxins, so some might say it's necessary! Remember that you can be in charge of what you talk about in your session and if there's something that feels too uncomfortable, just say, \"I'm not ready to talk about that.\" Your counselor wants \u00a0you to feel at ease and will probably not push you right away to a very uncomfortable place. Don't give up, go and put your best effort in!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-cry-during-therapy", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How do I tell a girl that I crossdress? I crossdress and like to be feminine but I am attracted to women, but yet that seems to bother girls I date or ask out.   How can I approach them about it? should I hold back and keep it a secret, or should I just be up-front about it.  I wonder if i should stop or if I should continue to do it since it makes me happy.  What should I do?\nTherapist: While this might not be the first thing you want to discuss when you meet someone, it is important for you to be yourself. It's better to weed out 10 people who can't accept you to find that one who can.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-a-girl-that-i-crossdress", "topics": "Human Sexuality,LGBTQ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my fianc\u00e9 accept and let go of my past? My fianc\u00e9 and I come from a strong Christian background but both went off the \"straight and narrow\" once before. He is having a hard time accepting my past, especially  that I'm not a virgin. He has a hard time in general accepting himself and others.   His insecurities are hurting our relationship. How can I help him let go of my past and decide to live in the present?\nTherapist: You are right that his insecurities are at the root of the issue. He will have to do the work to handle those emotions on his own. If you had not gone through some of those experiences, you would not be in the position you're in now, ready to commit to him and know that you're satisfied with that. Celebrate that you have moved through that and have landed in this perfect position with him!Hope that helps,\u00a0Allison", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-fianc-accept-and-let-go-of-my-past", "topics": "Relationships,Intimacy,Spirituality"}, {"text": "User: How do I move on? I'm obsessing about a terrible breakup. Everything is a constant reminder.  How do I move on?\nTherapist: Initially, everything is a reminder because there is a trace of that other person present in everything in your life. Start learning something new or try a new activity that you've always wanted to do. This can be an exciting time of transformation for you. As time goes by, you'll add new things in your life that aren't entwined with this relationship and those things will begin to crowd out those things associated with the relationship. Give yourself a little empathy, no one goes through a breakup without being sad.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-move-on-2", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: PTSD is impacting my whole life. I have PTSD. The side effects are really bad and have impacts on sex, anger and my relationships.  I even lost my job month ago.   How can I get my life back?\nTherapist: It is brave of you to\u00a0speak out, PTSD is not a joke and it can quickly take a\u00a0toll on all aspect of life. Living with PTSD can be very emotionally exhausting, but you can learn ways to cope with its challenges and find\u00a0fulfillment in your life again. This means being proactively involved with the process, learning about the problem and positive ways to manage it can be a good start. This can also mean seeking professional help. It is important to address the problem both at the\u00a0physiological and psychological level, this can mean using medication that is prescribed by a\u00a0MD\u00a0to reduce the intensity symptoms and also working with an experienced\u00a0licensed professional.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/ptsd-is-impacting-my-whole-life", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: My daughter isn't acting her age. My daughter seemed to be developing at a normal rate until about the age of 10. She then started to act younger than she is.   Now she only wants to play with younger kids and she doesn't act her age. I don't know why this is happening. Is this normal?\nTherapist: This is certainly an important issue to\u00a0look into, It is always helpful to speak with the child's pediatrician since they are most familiar with the child's\u00a0developmental history. Also, children tend to regress behaviorally when facing events and interactions they feel to have no control over, this can be as simple as a loss of a pet, a recent move, death in the family, \u00a0and/or as serious as sexual abuse, and other things. If you have not spoken to the school that can be a good starting point.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-daughter-isn-t-acting-her-age", "topics": "Parenting,Children & Adolescents"}, {"text": "User: Why can't I stop these thoughts? I keep having these random thoughts that I don't want.  Things like \"you aren't worth anything.\"  I know they're my own thoughts but it feels like someone else is saying it.  What is wrong with me, and how can I stop having these thoughts?\nTherapist: Talking to a licensed profession who can discuss this in greater depth can be best. As a general information, in short, I can say that our thoughts are greatly influenced\u00a0by our early life experiences. Our thoughts are processed through schemes, these are mental images or templates by which we make meaning of the world around us. On the other hand, in psychotherapy you can learn helpful\u00a0strategies to increase your conscious abilities to stay in control of your mind in the present moment and reduce intrusions of negative mind habits.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-stop-these-thoughts", "topics": "Diagnosis"}, {"text": "User: I'm worried about my new job. I just took a job that requires me to travel far away from home. My family and I really need this job.  People keep telling me I have \"anxiety\" and I'm terrified of having an anxiety attack on the road. This is all new to me. What can I do?\nTherapist: Bravo, on your success in securing a job and also for being proactive with your need. Talking to your physician is always a good place to start; your physician can tell you if there are organic influences causing your anxiety that may be out of your control. Additionally, talking to close or compassionate family and friends is always good. Healthy lifestyle\u00a0like eating right, sleeping enough, and regular exercise also never fails to help improve overall emotional health. You can find a lot from the internet too, use your\u00a0best judgment as what may not be appropriate for you there are some wonderful apps on most smartphones that can help you learn and practice grounding strategies to ease anxiety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-about-my-new-job", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: First, identify the areas that you need help with. What are the issues that are most troubling you? Are these situations creating an impact on your daily routine?Second, do some research as to the type of counselling service you are looking and that would best suit your needs. It takes strength and courage to reach out for help, but I know you can reach your goals. It takes time, patience, and practice do really address your needs.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Why can't I get an erection with my girlfriend? I love my girlfriend so much. I get an erection even just thinking about her or seeing her.  But the two times we tried to have sex I couldn't get an erection.  We've only had sex once and it was a long time ago.   Why this is happening and what can I do about it?\nTherapist: First step as always when a possible medical explanation exists, go for a urology check up to either your internist or a urologist. Once you know there is no medical reason which would prevent an erection, then we can consider the psychological and emotion based factors. Men often mistake their own fears of performance failure with the assumption that their partner thinks about sex as a performance. Talk with your gf about whatever is on your mind which may inhibit you from enjoying sex. What matters is to have a heartfelt dialogue with each other.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-get-an-erection-with-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How can I deal with my depression? I know I need to deal with my depression. But I don't know how and I don't want to tell anyone.   How can I deal with depression without telling anyone?\nTherapist: Love yourself more and treat yourself kindly, with empathy and compassion. Usually when people feel depressed they also feel lonely and isolated. Since at this time you wouldn't want to tell anyone about the way you feel, which includes the possibility that a few of the ones whom you tell would offer you emotional support, give this to yourself. Also consider to make a goal of eventually telling someone whom you are reasonably sure would understand and empathize, about your depression. This will help alleviate the sense of shame, unworthiness and pervasive guilt which often comes along with depression.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-deal-with-my-depression-2", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How can I help my girlfriend? My girlfriend just quit drinking and she became really depressed. She told me that she wants to move. What can I do to help her?  I want her to stay.\nTherapist: People often have very different values and opinions when they are drinking excessively and when they stop drinking so much. If yes, then did you stop drinking too?Often when partners meet each other as drinking buddies when one gets sober, the relationship ends. Once the terms of any relationship changes, one possibility is that it dissolves. The best way to go is to start the conversation of what you genuinely want. Ask her to give serious consideration and discussion over at least a few weeks or months, to moving away from you. This is a fair request since you are in a relationship.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-help-my-girlfriend", "topics": "Relationships,Substance Abuse,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My mother is trying to control my life and I don't know what to do. I am in my early 20s and I still live with my parents because I can't afford to live alone.  My mother says that if I live under her roof I have to follow her rules. She is trying to control my life. What should I do?\nTherapist: Even though legally you are an adult, it is a matter of courtesy to respect the homes of your parents. This will require openness, honesty, and a willingness to give from both sides in a respectful way. Healthy boundaries can be established and honored when each is willing to do their part in this new relationship. Your mother knows you are an adult, but has not had as many years of treating you like one. Share your concerns with her, and see if you can come up with a set of rules that you both can honor. It will be a great stepping stone for both of you as you move into this new chapter together as you begin relating a little differently. You don't have to sort this out on your own.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-mother-is-trying-to-control-my-life-and-i-don-t-know-what-to-do", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: How to get over somebody? Our relationship ended about 7 years ago, but don't know how to let go. How can I get over that person and move on?\nTherapist: What you're most likely trying to get over is to be attracted to the qualities which you felt attracted to in the person. The problem isn't releasing yourself from the person, per se. Letting go of a person means separating yourself from the qualities in a partner which you value. Either you continue to feel strongly that the qualities in the past relationship are still meaningful and you'd like to base your next relationship on these qualities. See if you can figure out whether you need the qualities this person gave you or whether you simply like being part of a couple.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-to-get-over-somebody", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: I want to have a threesome with my husband and another girl, but  I feel really nervous. My husband and I had our first threesome recently. Everyone was drinking and he was on her more then me.   He and I talked about it afterwards and it made me feel better, and now I'm craving more of it. But before it gets close to happening I get this empty feeling. Why am I feeling this way?\nTherapist: Because the acrobatics and excitement of sex has nothing to do with the meaning of deeper emotional attachment to another person with whom we are in a relationship. Try to distinguish between your feelings of excitement from the novel sexual arrangement and what you feel is necessary in order to feel emotionally close and attached to your husband.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-want-to-have-a-threesome-with-my-husband-and-another-girl-but-i-feel-really-nervous", "topics": "Human Sexuality,Intimacy,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: PTSD is impacting my whole life. I have PTSD. The side effects are really bad and have impacts on sex, anger and my relationships.  I even lost my job month ago.   How can I get my life back?\nTherapist: Slowly is the rate at which you'll get back your life. Being traumatized means not feeling safe in almost all areas of life. It is possible that the trauma in your life requires such great attention on your part to your own inner emotional safety that you are better off with a less intensive job than the one you recently lost. Try to prioritize restoring your emotional and psychological health. When you feel angry, try to examine if underlying the anger are feelings of stress, fear, insecurity regarding your position in relationship to the person toward whom you feel angry.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/ptsd-is-impacting-my-whole-life", "topics": "Trauma"}, {"text": "User: What happens in a counseling session? After first meeting the client, what is the process that a counselor facilitates?\nTherapist: There are probably no two therapists alike because first and foremost we are human beings!And...our personalities may somewhat guide how we go about getting to know you, identifying what you would like to be different in your life and developing a plan to get where you would like to be. The very most important thing that will determine a successful outcome is the healthy therapeutic relationship between you and your therapist. If you don't feel safe, comfortable and ready to work together, then it is likely not a good fit. And that's OK...speak up and the therapist should assist you in finding someone you can readily work with.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-happens-in-a-counseling-session", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: My family says I have depression. I'm in my late teens and live with my dad.  The only time I go out is for my college classes. Sometimes when I see my friends I want to talk with them, but sometimes I won't want to talk to them for days or even weeks.   Sometimes I feel i'm not worth knowing or i'm never going to do anything right.  Are they right, am I depressed?\nTherapist: If we were in my office together, I would offer that most likely you are feeling somewhat depressed. It's most important for me to impress that you \"don't have to live like this...\"\u00a0 Other helpful information: Have you experienced similar symptoms before? Anyone in\u00a0 your family been depressed before? Based on other physiological signs, like quality of sleep, appetite, energy/motivation, I would present you with some treatment options, one of which would be to consult with a medication management provider to assess your symptoms and provide additional information for you to consider.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-family-says-i-have-depression", "topics": "Depression"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over a person I fell in love with? I know that I need to get past my feelings for this person I fell in love with, but t's so difficult to move on because he showed me feelings I've never felt before.   I feel like I don't  want to be without my genuine love for him, but logically, I know I need to be without him. I can't discuss this with anybody in my life because the conditions surrounding our love are considered  \"wrong\" by a lot of people.  How can I get myself to just move on?\nTherapist: There is no wrong or right way to define a relationship. I believe each relationship we are in is an opportunity to expand and to know self on a deeper level. We are conditioned to believe that we are not valued, or worth much without the confirmation of others and the world around us. Give yourself time and try to not go to those who are toxic and enjoy the drama of others lives as s way to avoid looking at themselves.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-a-person-i-fell-in-love-with", "topics": "Relationship Dissolution ,Intimacy"}, {"text": "User: How do I tell one parent I want to live with the other one? I want to live with my mom. My dad gets angry and makes me feel like everything is my fault. I still talk to my mom although My dad tells me that I'm no allowed to. I'm scared I will make the wrong decision and that my dad will hate me.   How do I tell him that I want to live with my mom?\nTherapist: Yes, from what you wrote, your dad doesn't accept responsibility for the way he feels and blames you for his feelings. I also understand your hurt and frustration that your father handles himself in a way which shows for now that he is unwilling to respect your wishes. In terms of how to tell him your choice, do this in simple and most basic information terms. I suggest to not offer reasons to him bc he doesn't seem interested in hearing them. Giving him reasons would likely trigger him to rebut them. Right now he doesn't seem very ready to handle this.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-tell-one-parent-i-want-to-live-with-the-other-one", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I don't know how to deal with my boyfriend's father. We rent from from my boyfriend's parents. His father drops by unannounced and stays for long periods of time. He lets himself into our home when we aren't there on a daily basis and takes our dogs to his house. He has a key and lets himself into our house without asking permission.\nTherapist: You're expecting reasonable behaviors from your boyfriend's father. Since the father is his, your boyfriend is the person in position to speak directly with his dad about the expectations you and he have of the father. If your boyfriend has a good relationship w his dad, which is not what this sounds like, then great!If your boyfriend has a stressed and tense relationship w his dad, then somehow he needs to develop or be coached and encouraged by the people in his life who truly care about and know him, a way to state the very reasonable standards you describe here.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-don-t-know-how-to-deal-with-my-boyfriend-s-father", "topics": "Family Conflict,Relationships"}, {"text": "User: What can I do about my dad? My dad makes me feel like shit and like I'm worthless.  He calls me names and makes me feel depressed.  I want to move out because I swear if I stay here, I'm going to lose it. What can I do?\nTherapist: If you're actually able to afford to move out and support your own life, then this is a reasonable choice. Doing so is much more difficult than maybe it sounds. Do you have privacy in your house and can you spend more time in a self-created safe space than around your dad?Also, limit the amount of dialogue you have with him so you don't offer him a chance to feel invited to criticize you. What do the other family members do when they hear your dad calling you names?Is it possible the other family members don't realize how hurt and upset you are by your dad's behavior?If yes, then make a project for yourself to tell the other family members that you suffer from your dad's name calling.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-can-i-do-about-my-dad-2", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: I'm worried about my new job. I just took a job that requires me to travel far away from home. My family and I really need this job.  People keep telling me I have \"anxiety\" and I'm terrified of having an anxiety attack on the road. This is all new to me. What can I do?\nTherapist: Anxiety or panic attacks can be very frightening. Here are a few \"tools\" you can use that will help in the short term: \u00a0Keeping your mind occupied by listening to books on tape may help; \u00a0Counting backwards from 100 in 7's; Naming cities that begin with each letter of the alphabet; Keeping some ice or an ice pack in a cooler beside you, which you may take out and hold in your hand or to your face; Soothing self-talk such as \"This is uncomfortable, but I can handle it\" or \"I've been through this before and can make it through again\". I recommend that you seek out a Therapist to help you with some long-term solutions to the anxiety.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-worried-about-my-new-job", "topics": "Anxiety,Career Counseling"}, {"text": "User: How does someone approach a counselor? How does a person start the counseling process?\nTherapist: Most counselors are very approachable and many offer a 15 minute chat by phone to allow you to talk about your issue, and to get a feel for the counselor. If you like what you hear by phone, the next step is to set up a face-to-face meeting. Trust your instincts and if you don't feel comfortable, let him or her know that you don't think it's a good fit. Many counselors list on websites like Psychology Today and Good Therapy. Visit these websites to learn more about therapists in your area.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-does-someone-approach-a-counselor", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Why can't I stop these thoughts? I keep having these random thoughts that I don't want.  Things like \"you aren't worth anything.\"  I know they're my own thoughts but it feels like someone else is saying it.  What is wrong with me, and how can I stop having these thoughts?\nTherapist: Many people have thoughts like those you describe, and often it feels like someone else is saying it because they are things that may have been said to you when you were very young. You catch yourself saying \"you aren't worth anything\". Let's figure out how you can do better next time.\" So the idea is to develop a voice of a \"friend\", who can tell you the kind of things you would say to your own best friend. You might also pick up the book, Feeling Good, by David Burns. He gives many tips for how to change Negative Self Talk.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-can-t-i-stop-these-thoughts", "topics": "Diagnosis"}, {"text": "User: I'm addicted to smoking. How can I stop? I'm planning to have baby, so I have to quit smoking - but it's hard. Sometimes it's not a physical need, it's mental.  I cannot help myself from thinking about smoking. What can I do to get rid of this addiction?\nTherapist: Cutting down or cutting out cigarettes is very challenging, and there aren't any one size fits all solutions. Many habits that we have are paired habits. It might be taking a walk instead of smoking on your break at work. Leave your credit or debit cards at home and carry less emergency cash than a pack of cigarettes. Consider cutting back before cutting out. You could also talk to your doctor about the safety of nicotine patches. Focus on what you are gaining instead of what you are loosing.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-m-addicted-to-smoking-how-can-i-stop", "topics": "Substance Abuse,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: How can I cope with work related stress better? I am in a high stress position for a tech company. I am being overworked and underpaid for my contributions and it is not only giving me anxiety, but also demoralizing.  What can I do to manage my stress?\nTherapist: If seeking another career opportunity isn't viable, there are a couple of things you can do to manage stress on the job. Have a ritual to end the day: \u00a0If you commute by car consider an end of the day playlist. Whatever it is, send a signal to your brain that it is time to end the day.4. If you do work from home or are expected to be available\u00a0after hours, set boundaries where you can. Set a timer for answering emails and stick to that.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-can-i-cope-with-work-related-stress-better", "topics": "Stress,Workplace Relationships"}, {"text": "User: How do I get over \"imposter syndrome\"? I'm dealing with imposter syndrome in graduate school.  I know that by all accounts I am a phenomenal graduate student, and that I am well-published.  I am well liked by students and faculty alike.  And yet I cannot shake the feeling that I'm going to be found out as a fraud.   How can I get over this feeling?\nTherapist: It sounds like you are on the right track. Recognizing these nagging thoughts of self- doubt as \"imposter syndrome\" is a huge step in the right direction. Continuing to remind yourself of what you have accomplished and looking at the facts at hand can help diminish doubt. Remember, many successful people battled imposter syndrome on the way to the top (and still manage it). It might be helpful to read some of their stories so that you don't feel alone. Business Insider has a great article about men and the imposter syndrome too.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-get-over-imposter-syndrome", "topics": "Stress,Workplace Relationships,Anxiety"}, {"text": "User: Why do I feel sad all the time? I just feel sad all the time and I don't like anyone in my family. I feel like they're trying to control me and won't let me grow.\nTherapist: Understandably the idea of someone who tries to control you, is good reason to feel sad. Your feelings sound like they are very strong and meaningful in your life. Keep in mind that your feelings about others has more to do with one's own self-view than with what the other person is actually doing. Unless the people in your family are actually interrupting and impeding your life in practical ways or by intimidation or other verbal ways to inhibit you, then there is a great chance your feelings of being controlled by other family members has more to do with your fears to be who you are than with any family members' actions.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-do-i-feel-sad-all-the-time", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression"}, {"text": "User: Why is it hard for me to express myself? I don't know how to tell someone how I feel about them. How can I get better at expressing how I feel?\nTherapist: \"Practice makes perfect\"!Simply by expressing yourself and listening to if others listen and understand you, then modifying your next try with whatever improvements you think of based on the impressions you feel others have of you, will progress your self-expression. Also, one way to lessen the tension before speaking to someone is to tell them you feel unsure on how best to express yourself. This way you've prepared them to be patient with whatever words you do state.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/why-is-it-hard-for-me-to-express-myself", "topics": "Relationships"}, {"text": "User: I feel like my mother doesn't support me. My mother is combative with me when I say I don't want to talk with her about my depression.    She hasn't been supportive of me in the past and she isn't someone that I feel comfortable opening up to. She constantly tries to instigate conversations where she asks me questions that I don't want to or can't answer. I tell her I don't want to talk and she starts arguments with me.   How can I get her to understand?\nTherapist: Your situation sounds extremely frustrating. You're doing the right move to state you don't want to discuss your depression with her. I guess you could ask if she would like to know your reason to not speak w her about your depression. If you feel she can handle a reasonable conversation, and you would like to tell her your true reason, then schedule this or bring up the topic at a neutral time, not in the middle of an argument. Having an unsupportive mom is difficult enough to accept.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/i-feel-like-my-mother-doesn-t-support-me", "topics": "Family Conflict,Depression"}, {"text": "User: My mother is trying to control my life and I don't know what to do. I am in my early 20s and I still live with my parents because I can't afford to live alone.  My mother says that if I live under her roof I have to follow her rules. She is trying to control my life. What should I do?\nTherapist: I'm sorry you are having such a tough time with this situation. I have even heard much older adults clients \u00a0say that when they visit their childhood home , they suddenly feel like a \"kid\" again . This is not an easy situation , but if you can approach your mom in a calm and \"mature\" way and suggest a planned, structured discussion that doesn't take place in the heat of the moment , your mom may be impressed by your maturity and even more receptive to working out some rules that you can both live with.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-mother-is-trying-to-control-my-life-and-i-don-t-know-what-to-do", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting"}, {"text": "User: My daughter isn't acting her age. My daughter seemed to be developing at a normal rate until about the age of 10. She then started to act younger than she is.   Now she only wants to play with younger kids and she doesn't act her age. I don't know why this is happening. Is this normal?\nTherapist: It sounds like you are really concerned about your daughter because you have noticed a significant change in her behavior . With that said , I have found that \"under stress people regress.\" You may also want to check in with her teacher (s) to see if they have noticed any changes in your daughter's behavior at school .I also think that you can have a conversation with your daughter in order to see if you can get a sense about whether or not something has been bothering her. Has something been bothering you lately ?", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/my-daughter-isn-t-acting-her-age", "topics": "Parenting,Children & Adolescents"}, {"text": "User: What happens in a counseling session? After first meeting the client, what is the process that a counselor facilitates?\nTherapist: I think that the answer probably varies depending upon the particular therapist . In my work with people , once we have met and I have gotten an idea of the person'a concerns and the issues they want help with , I spend the next few sessions gathering as much history and as much information about the client's current concerns in order to formulate some ideas about what may be causing distress . I would then share my thoughts with the client to see if they feel I am understanding them and on the right track. If things aren't improving , I am very happy and willing to try something new !", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-happens-in-a-counseling-session", "topics": "Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: Is it normal to cry during therapy? I start counseling/therapy in a few days (I'm freaking out) but my main fear is that I'll cry and embarrass myself, is it something to worry about?\nTherapist: As someone who has practiced as a clinical psychologist for 25 years , I would say that crying is NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT AT ALL ! Almost every single person I have worked with has cried at one point or another. I can assure you that most , if not all , therapists expect clients to cry \u00a0and there is nothing to be embarrassed about. Crying is \u00a0often a sign that you are really working things through and getting in touch with feelings that you need to get in touch with in order to heal .So , to summarize , don't worry at all about crying!", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-normal-to-cry-during-therapy", "topics": "Anxiety,Counseling Fundamentals "}, {"text": "User: How should I handle the child I had with my ex-wife? My ex-wife married and used me to have a child. She now uses that child as a pawn. I know my child misses me, but I need to move on and not live in the past. How do I do this? Do I see my child as much as possible or very little? Is it more confusing for the child?\nTherapist: The thing that confuses a child the most is for a parent to come and go from their life. Children have a way of making things their fault, even when they have done nothing wrong. Because of this, when parents cut off contact, the child thinks it's their fault. This makes the belief even more strong for them. What am I doing to keep making him go away?\"I believe a child needs both parents in their life. Just make sure when you make a commitment to this child to stick to it.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-should-i-handle-the-child-i-had-with-my-ex-wife", "topics": "Parenting,Relationship Dissolution "}, {"text": "User: Is it healthy to embarrass a child as punishment? My grandson's step-mother sends him to school with a pink Barbie backpack as a form of punishment.\nTherapist: It is never in a child's best interest to use humiliation as punishment. To then go and cause them embarrassment is unconscionable. The entire job of a parent is to prepare their child to become a successful, healthy adult. You do this by using healthy ways to teach a child when they make a mistake. Discipline shouldn't be seen as punishment. It should be seen as a way to teach a lesson. She should be one of the people he can come to when he's hurting; not someone who causes him pain.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/is-it-healthy-to-embarrass-a-child-as-punishment", "topics": "Parenting,Family Conflict"}, {"text": "User: How do I fix my relationship? My boyfriend is in recovery from drug addiction. We recently got into a fight and he has become very distant.  I don't know what to do to fix the relationship.\nTherapist: I'm sorry you have tension between you and your bf. A relationship means two people who relate, right?! If you've already done a significant amount of reflection and change in the way you relate to him, then the next step may be to be patient as long as possible while he decides what to change about his part in the relationship toward you. Substance abuse recovery requires profound effort and reflection. He may be so absorbed in the recovery that he can only concentrate on this.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-fix-my-relationship-3", "topics": "Relationships,Addiction"}, {"text": "User: What are the long term effects of losing one's adopted mother? The birth mother attempted suicide several times while pregnant. The adopted mother was terminally ill upon adopting the baby and died when  the child was just over one year old.  The adopted father then remarried to a physically, psychologically, and emotionally abusive woman.  The child was placed in foster care at 11 years old.   What might be the long term effects on an adult with this childhood history?\nTherapist: The true answer is, \"no one can really say with certainty\". The variables are the way this child absorbs and adjusts to these significant changes in their life. All anyone can do is guess at this point and there's no good reason to guess. Some people become great teachers, therapists and philosophers who have this background. Some give up on life and hide away from others. The best anyone could do who knows this child is to offer love bc this is the greatest guarantee to show there are good people on this earth.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/what-are-the-long-term-effects-of-losing-one-s-adopted-mother", "topics": "Family Conflict,Parenting,Children & Adolescents"}, {"text": "User: How do I help my 20 year old boyfriend who says he hates his life? I think adult life is making him depressed and we often sleep in on weekends untill 1 or 2 pm. We just eat, smoke weed, watch movies, and he'll go on his phone all day. He doesn't seem motivated to do much and he's often angry.   I have no clue how to help him take his mind off the negative, or to distract him into a different light. How do I help him?\nTherapist: How do you help yourself to believe you require more than what he offers to you?What do you get from this relationship which feels satisfying?To answer this question may in the longterm be the best way to help your bf.", "votes": 0, "url": "https://counselchat.com/questions/how-do-i-help-my-20-year-old-boyfriend-who-says-he-hates-his-life", "topics": "Relationships,Depression,Substance Abuse"}]